THE SOUTHERN LITERARY MESSENGER:

DEVOTED TO EVERY DEPARTMENT OF LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS.


Au gré de nos desirs bien plus qu'au gré des vents.
                                      _Crebillon's Electre_.

As _we_ will, and not as the winds will.


RICHMOND:
T. W. WHITE, PUBLISHER AND PROPRIETOR.
1835-6.


{669}


SOUTHERN LITERARY MESSENGER.

VOL. II.  RICHMOND, OCTOBER, 1836.  NO. XI.

T. W. WHITE, PROPRIETOR.  FIVE DOLLARS PER ANNUM.




TO MY WIFE.

BY LINDLEY MURRAY.[1]

[Footnote 1: These verses, printed from an original MS. of Lindley
Murray, and, as we believe, never before published, present that
celebrated grammarian in an entirely new point of view, and give him
strong claims to the character of a poet. A sister of Mr. Murray
married, we think, one of the Hoffmans of New York, and it is possible
some of that highly respected family may have in their possession some
other metrical pieces from his pen. It is somewhat remarkable that the
present lines involve an odd _grammatical_ error of construction in
the concluding stanza.]


  When on thy bosom I recline,
  Enraptur'd still to call thee mine,
    To call thee mine for life;
  I glory in the sacred ties,
  Which modern wits and fools despise,
    Of Husband and of Wife.

  One mutual flame inspires our bliss;
  The tender look, the melting kiss,
    Even years have not destroyed;
  Some sweet sensation, ever new,
  Springs up and proves the maxim true,
    That Love can ne'er be cloy'd.

  Have I a wish?—'tis all for thee,
  Hast thou a wish?—'tis all for me.
    So soft our moments move,
  That angels look with ardent gaze,
  Well pleas'd to see our happy days,
    And bid us live—and love.

  If cares arise—and cares will come—
  Thy bosom is my softest home;
    I'll lull me there to rest:
  And is there ought disturbs my fair?
  I'll bid her sigh out every care,
    And lose it in my breast.

  Have I a wish?—'tis all her own,
  All hers and mine are roll'd in one—
    Our hearts are so entwin'd,
  That, like the ivy round the tree,
  Bound up in closest amity,
    'Tis Death to be disjoin'd.




SKETCHES OF THE HISTORY
AND PRESENT CONDITION OF TRIPOLI, WITH SOME ACCOUNTS OF THE OTHER
BARBARY STATES.

NO. XII.

BY ROBERT GREENHOW.


At the conclusion of the last number it was stated that on the 12th of
August 1832, Yusuf the old Pasha of Tripoli abdicated the throne in
favor of his son Ali, thereby disappointing the expectations of his
grandson Emhammed.

The Consuls being nearly all unprepared for this conjuncture, were
uncertain how to act. The majority were disposed to adopt the
proposition made by M. Schwebels, that they should proceed without
delay in a body, and offer to Ali the congratulations customary in
Barbary on the accession of a new Sovereign; the others however
refused. Under ordinary circumstances the visit would have been a mere
ceremony, but in the actual state of things it was likely to be
interpreted by the people, both within and without the town, as an
evidence of the dispositions of the Governments represented by the
Consuls; in that way it might have an important influence in
determining the issue of the struggle in favor of Ali, which was by no
means desired by all the Consuls, several of them being inclined from
personal as well as political motives, to prefer the establishment of
Emhammed as Pasha of Tripoli. The young Prince was considered superior
to his uncle in intelligence and personal character; he appeared to be
sustained by the great mass of the population, and it was probable
that if no other Power interfered in the contest, he would ultimately
prove successful; moreover he was the legitimate heir to the throne
according to rules of succession, which the European Governments in
general were interested in maintaining. These considerations
occasioned much discussion among the Consuls; at length it was agreed
that no public demonstration should be made by them in behalf of
either Prince, until instructions had been received from their several
governments. This arrangement does not seem however to have been
considered by the Consuls as precluding them from any private
exertions which their inclinations or the interests of those whom they
represented might prompt them to make in favor of one or the other
party; accordingly the agents of France, Spain, Naples and the
Netherlands, engaged actively in support of the _Town Pasha_ as Ali
was designated; while the pretensions of Emhammed the _Country_
candidate, were as zealously upheld by those of Great Britain, the
United States, Tuscany and Portugal.

The news of Yusuf's abdication only rendered the people of the country
more strongly determined to persevere in the cause of Emhammed, and M.
Schwebels who had been empowered by Ali to act as mediator, was unable
to procure their submission on any terms which he could offer to them
or their chief. After some days of fruitless negotiations, on the 24th
of August the French Consul received their _ultimatum_, in the form of
a letter or manifesto addressed to Yusuf, which is worthy of notice as
a specimen of Arab state-paper writing. It commences by a long
rhapsody in praise of God, his angels and his prophet Mohammed, and
the remainder is a mass of unconnected assertions and declarations
from which there is occasionally an attempt to draw deductions;
interspersed with scraps from the Koran and other sacred writings,
having no discoverable bearing on the main subject. The amount of the
whole is, that Yusuf having become incapable from the {670}
infirmities of old age to conduct the affairs of the country, and Ali
having rendered himself odious by his tyranny and rapacity, the people
had determined to make Emhammed Sovereign of Tripoli, and would not
desist until they had succeeded in establishing him as such. The
document is signed by Emhammed as Pasha, by his brother Hamet as Bey
and by a hundred and ten Sheiks and other principal persons; the names
of many of the signers are preceded by invocations addressed to God
and the Prophet, in token of the writer's conviction of the truth of
what was asserted in the paper, or accompanied by expressions
indicative of humility or devotion, such as—_The poor of the poor_—
_The slave of God_—_Who prays to God_.

A copy of this manifesto was at the same time despatched to Mr.
Macauley the American Consul, on the return of a boat which had been
sent to the part of the coast occupied by the insurgents, in order to
procure provisions for his family; it was accompanied by a letter from
Emhammed, requesting that it might be shown to the other Consuls, who
were also advised to take measures for their own security as the town
would in a few days be stormed by the insurgents. The Consuls on
receiving this notification, immediately addressed a note to Ali, to
inquire what protection he could afford them, in case they remained;
the Pasha replied by assuring them that they were in no danger, as the
place was strong enough to resist any attacks which the insurgents
could make.

Having learned that Mr. Macauley had received other documents from
Emhammed, Ali became anxious to know their contents, and being
permitted to examine, he wished to retain them, in order to prevent
their circulation among the people; the Consul however insisted upon
their return, and an altercation ensued between him and the Pasha, in
consequence of which the flag of the American Consulate was struck by
Macauley, in token of a cessation of intercourse with the Tripoline
Government. This measure alarmed Ali, who knew that there was a large
American squadron in the vicinity; he therefore immediately made
satisfactory apologies to the Consul, who having accepted them again
displayed his flag.

The assurances of the Pasha were not sufficient to dispel the
apprehensions of the Consuls, nor of the people who soon became
acquainted with the contents of Emhammed's communications. The forces
of the insurgents were daily increasing, and many houses in the place
had already been injured by their shot; to oppose them, Ali had only
about six hundred troops, nearly all of them negro slaves, not more
than were required to garrison the castle and keep the people in awe.
The walls of the place were indeed high and thick, but the cannon on
their ramparts were nearly all useless. In addition, the want of
provisions began to be seriously felt, and the general discontent of
course increased. Many persons who had held high offices under Yusuf
escaped from the town and joined Emhammed's party; among them were the
head of the law and religion, and Hadji Mohammed Bet-el-Mel who had
succeeded old D'Ghies as the confidential Minister of the late Pasha.

While things were in this state, on the 28th of August the insurgents
made a general attack on the city, and at the same time the Pasha
caused a number of the inhabitants to be seized and imprisoned on
suspicion of being engaged in a conspiracy against him. These
proceedings naturally caused the utmost alarm and distress in Tripoli.
The Christian residents and the Turks expecting that the place would
be immediately stormed and ravaged by the Arabs, took refuge on board
the vessels in the harbor; while many of the most respectable natives,
fearing that they might be arrested or killed by the Pasha if they
should remain in their own houses, sought protection in those of the
foreign Consuls. Ali, on seeing this, became fearful of exciting
greater confusion by persisting in his violent measures; he therefore
countermanded the arrests, and his ministers went about endeavoring to
tranquillize the people, and to induce those who had fled to the
Consulates, to return to their own houses. The bombardment however
proved fruitless; the guns of the besiegers were small and badly
served, and although they damaged some of the houses they had no
effect on the fortifications. Other attacks of the same kind were
afterwards made, which being equally unsuccessful, the alarm subsided
and Ali's friends became more confident of success.

Emhammed becoming convinced that without more efficient means of
attack little advantage was to be derived from bombarding the town,
determined to direct his efforts against its commerce. He accordingly
removed his artillery to the eastern shore of the harbor where
batteries had been thrown up to receive them; and having also armed
two small vessels he conceived himself authorized to declare the port
in a state of blockade. He therefore addressed a circular to the
Consuls in Tripoli through the medium of his friend Mr. Macauley,
informing them that no vessels would thereafter be allowed to enter
the port. M. Schwebels and nearly all the other Consuls, immediately
protested against this blockade, on the ground that it was an
irregular and unwarrantable proceeding, on the part of individuals who
had not yet been acknowledged at constituting an independent power by
any Government. The American Consul however thought proper not to join
in this expression of opinion, and by his refusal drew upon himself
the indignation of Ali's party, which was manifested by public insults
and private annoyances, until at length considering that his life was
no longer secure in Tripoli Mr. Macauley struck his flag and retired
with his family to a country house, situated within the lines of the
insurgent forces. The Pasha on this became again alarmed, and
endeavored by every means, even by the indirect offer of a bribe, to
induce the Consul to return to his post in the town; his arguments
however proving vain, he despatched Mohammed D'Ghies to Malta where
the squadron of the United States had just arrived, in order that by
his representations to its commander, the consequences which he had
reason to anticipate might be averted.

Commodore Patterson the commander of the American squadron, having
compared the statements of the Consul with the explanations offered by
D'Ghies, was convinced that there had been faults on both sides, and
that the matter might be easily settled without any hostile
proceedings. He therefore sailed for Tripoli, as soon as he had
obtained the requisite supplies, and arrived there on the 23d of
November with two frigates and a sloop of war. The Commodore was
visited on board his ship, immediately on his arrival, by Macauley,
and also by Mohammed D'Ghies, who was {671} furnished by Ali with full
powers to arrange the existing difficulties. As the American force was
sufficient to destroy the city in the actual condition of its
defences, the Tripoline Minister readily agreed to the terms of
satisfaction required by the Commodore; the Pasha in consequence made
the usual Punic protestations of regard for the United States and
their Consul, and disavowing any participation in the annoyances to
which the latter had been subjected, delivered up to the Commodore all
who could be proved to have been engaged in them. These miserable
instruments of tyranny were reprimanded and dismissed; the flag of the
United States was again displayed on the Consulate, and saluted with
the usual number of thirty-three guns; the Commodore and his officers
visited the Pasha, who was entertained in his turn on board the
frigate, and the utmost good feeling was manifested between parties
who cordially hated or despised each other. No notice was taken of
Emhammed who had flattered himself with the hope of acquiring a
powerful ally. Mr. Macauley however placing little confidence in the
smiles and assurances of the _Town Pasha_, and moreover considering
his place of residence unsafe, as it had been pierced by several balls
from the cannon of the besiegers, did not think proper to remain at
his official post; he therefore established himself at Malta, where he
continued for the ensuing two years and a half, visiting Tripoli
occasionally during that period.

The year 1833 and a part of 1834 passed without the occurrence of any
notable event, and without any alteration in the prospects of either
of the rival Princes. The town had in the mean time been reduced to
abject misery; no supplies could be obtained from the interior, and as
its commerce was almost destroyed, the inhabitants were starving. On
the other hand, the condition of the country is said to have been more
than usually prosperous; no taxes could be collected by Ali, and as
Emhammed's followers were chiefly from the agricultural districts, he
was unable even had he been willing, to levy severe contributions. The
foreign trade was conducted through the ports of Tajoura, Mesurata and
Bengazi, the chiefs of which being nearly independent, raised large
sums by appropriating to themselves the greater part of the duties on
imports and exports.

The Consuls had probably been all instructed to remain neutral or at
least to appear so. M. Schwebels continued to act as mediator,
employing his good offices as before merely in urging the submission
of the insurgents to the Pasha. In May 1834 however, it was discovered
that he had overstepped the bounds of neutrality; for a proclamation
signed by Ali and guarantied by the seal and signature of the French
Consul, promising indemnity and reward to those who would betray or
desert the cause of the insurgents, was found on the person of one of
the Sheiks in command under Emhammed. Soon after this M. Schwebels was
transferred to Tunis where he now acts as Consul General of France,
and was succeeded in Tripoli by M. Bourboulon.

Colonel Warrington returned to Tripoli, but he neither displayed his
flag nor held any official communication with Ali; he remained chiefly
at his country house, which being near the town and in the midst of
the insurgents, received occasionally and perhaps not always
accidentally a ball from one of the guns of the castle. Although it
does not appear to be certain that he took any active part in favor of
Emhammed, yet Ali considered his presence as highly injurious, and in
order to procure his removal as well as to effect some arrangement
with regard to the claims of British subjects, he commissioned Hassuna
D'Ghies who had remained in France since 1829, to proceed to England.
In London Hassuna soon found that these objects were not to be
attained by direct applications to the Ministry, and he accordingly
endeavored to secure assistance in the Legislature. In consequence of
his representations, motions were made in the House of Commons by Sir
James Scarlett and Mr. Bowring, for inquiries into the conduct of
Warrington, who was charged by those gentlemen with having made an
improper use of his official station at Tripoli and with having
thereby occasioned great distress in that place. The subject was
however so generally uninteresting, that the Ministers found no
difficulty in evading these calls by merely declaring that
investigations into the subject had been commenced.

The Governments of France and England were in fact at the time engaged
in negotiations with a third Power, which was equally interested in
the future political condition of Tripoli. The Sultan of Turkey who
had been obliged to submit to the occupation of Algiers by the French
determined if possible to prevent a country so much nearer to his own
dominions from falling into the hands of a Christian Power, and he
accordingly declared his intention to exert his supreme authority as
Sovereign of Tripoli in deciding the question between the rival
Princes. The announcement of this determination led to correspondence
on the subject between the three Governments the nature of which has
not yet been disclosed; it is impossible therefore to say whether the
events which ensued were the result of agreements made between them,
or, as is more probable, the Sultan acted without regard for the
wishes of the other parties.

On the 18th of September 1834 a Turkish brig arrived at Tripoli,
bringing Mohammed Cekir, Private Secretary of the Seraglio, as Envoy
or Commissioner from the Sultan. For some days the objects of his
mission were unknown; it was however soon rumored that he was the
bearer of _firman_ or Imperial order recognizing Ali as Pasha, and
requiring the people to submit to his authority. This rumor was fully
confirmed on the 25th, when the _firman_ declaring such to be the will
of the Sultan, was publicly read at the castle in presence of the
principal persons of the Government, and of the foreign Consuls who
had been invited to attend. The friends of Ali now considered his
success assured; the Consuls with the exception of those of Great
Britain and Tuscany, immediately offered to him their congratulations
without reserve, and M. Bourboulon delivered his credentials as
_Chargé d'Affaires_ of France. The people of the town, probably
supposing that the termination of their miseries was at hand expressed
their joy by shouts of triumph and felicitation, which were responded
to by yells of defiance from the country. The Envoy having formally
acknowledged Ali as Pasha, then proceeded to execute the remainder of
his charge, and issued a proclamation calling on the insurgent chiefs
to submit within the space of six days to their lawful sovereign; he
moreover privately despatched to Emhammed letters written to him by
the {672} Grand Vizier and Capoudan Pasha, exhorting him to yield
without delay. Neither Emhammed nor his followers however were
disposed to obey the mandate of a distant monarch, whom they regarded
rather as their spiritual than as their temporal chief, particularly
as the summons was unaccompanied by adequate means of enforcing it;
the period fixed in the proclamation consequently expired without
manifestation on their parts of any intention to cease their
opposition to Ali. Mohammed Cekir then considering it possible that
his proclamation might have been withheld from the people of the
country by their chiefs, determined to communicate with them directly
in person; accordingly on the 3d of October he left the town and
proceeded with great ceremony, under the escort of a body of the
Pasha's troops, to the vicinity of Emhammed's encampment, where being
soon surrounded by a crowd of curious Arabs he ordered the _firman_ to
be read. The effect by no means corresponded with his wishes; the
_firman_ was written in the Turkish language with which the auditors
were entirely unacquainted, and when its meaning was at length
explained to them, they replied by shouts and movements so little
allied to respect, that the Envoy found it most prudent to retreat
without further parley within the walls of Tripoli. While on his way
however he received a letter from Emhammed and his Sheiks, professing
great veneration for the Sultan, but declining to comply with his will
on the subject in question.

After this failure a consultation was held at the castle, the result
of which was another proclamation addressed to the people of the
country inviting them in more conciliatory terms to make their
submission within a period of six days as before allowed. The reply of
the insurgents to this summons did not differ from that given to the
former; it was however signed by all the chief men of their party.
They also sent a circular letter to the same effect to the Consuls in
Tripoli, enclosing an expostulatory manifesto addressed to the
Sovereigns of Europe, setting forth the causes of their appearing in
arms and their determination to resist the authority of Ali,
notwithstanding the Sultan's _firman_ which they averred had been
obtained by corrupt means. These papers are supposed to have been
drawn up by Hadji Mohammed Bet-el-Mel (whom Emhammed had made his
first Minister,) with the aid probably of Colonel Warrington.

The Turkish Envoy in revenge for this contumacy, declared the part of
the country occupied by the insurgents in a state of blockade; and the
brig which had brought him to Tripoli was forthwith employed in
cruising off its coast. Emhammed on his part repeated his assurances,
that he should maintain the investment of the town by sea as well as
by land, and having again warned the Consuls that their vessels would
be prevented from entering the harbor, a few days after gave proof of
his power as well as of his determination to effect what he had
threatened. On the 6th of November he fired upon an Austrian vessel
which attempted to enter the port and compelled her to put back,
although she was under the French flag, and supported by a French brig
of war, as well as by that in which the Ottoman Envoy had arrived;
several other vessels, European as well as Tripoline, were treated in
a similar manner. The Turk not choosing to expose the flag of his
Sovereign to such indignities returned to Constantinople.

In the spring of 1835 reports were circulated in Tripoli that a
Turkish armament was about to be sent to that place from
Constantinople; some supposed it was for the purpose of overthrowing
all opposition to Ali; others hinted that the Sultan meant to take
possession of the country. The latter opinion was confirmed by all the
European Journals; and indeed it could scarcely have been expected
that the Ottoman Government, which at that moment seemed to need all
its forces and funds for its own defence, could have been disposed to
send a large and expensive expedition for the mere purpose of settling
a dispute with regard to the Sovereignty of a distant country.

On the 20th of May Mohammed Cekir returned to Tripoli where he
announced the Turkish Squadron as near, and assuring Ali that it was
sent entirely for his benefit, advised him to show his gratitude to
the Sultan, by the liberal distribution of presents among its
officers. The Ottoman ships appeared on the evening of the 25th, and
in the course of that night the whole armament, consisting of one ship
of the line, five frigates, two sloops, two brigs, a schooner, a
cutter and ten transports, anchored in the roads and harbor, without
any opposition either on the part of the Pasha or of his rival. The
next morning presents of fresh provisions were sent to the ships from
the Messeah as well as the town; salutes were fired from the batteries
on each side, and the Turkish Admiral received visits and
communications from each quarter. The Pasha attended by his ministers
and chief officers also paid a formal visit to the Admiral, by whom he
appears to have been received with the respect usually paid to one of
his rank; it was then confidently expected in the city that he would
be detained, however after having spent about four hours on board the
flag ship, he returned to the castle in his boat receiving salutes as
he passed, from the guns of the squadron. Immediately on landing, he
issued an order that none of his subjects should appear in arms. This
order having been circulated the disembarkation of the troops began,
and by mid-day of the 27th more than four thousand Turkish soldiers
with nineteen cannon and four mortars had entered the city, which was
thus placed entirely at their discretion.

On the morning of the 28th, Ali again went on board the Admiral's
ship, in order as it was understood to accompany that officer and the
commander of the troops to the city; two hours afterwards the guns
from the ships announced that the high personages were on their way to
the shore, and the barges supposed to contain them were discovered
approaching the water gate. The Turkish Admiral and General landed and
attended by their guards entered the castle; the Pasha however did not
appear, and it was soon ascertained that he was a prisoner on board
the flag ship. At four o'clock the Sultan's _firman_ was publicly
read, by which the General Mustapha Nedgib was appointed Pasha of the
_Province_ of Tripoli.

The Turkish Pasha no doubt considered his work imperfect, until he had
also possessed himself of Emhammed's person; with this view therefore
he immediately despatched a messenger to the Prince, requesting him,
his brother Hamet and his Minister Hadji Mohammed, to appear at the
Castle and declare their submission to the will of the Sultan. Hadji
Mohammed at once evinced his readiness to submit, recommending {673}
to the Turk to issue assurances of pardon to all who had been engaged
in the opposition to Ali; Emhammed however declined entering the
castle, except upon the guarantee of the British Consul. Mustapha
without hesitation gave the assurances of indemnity as recommended by
Hadji Mohammed, and ordered the gates of the town to be thrown open;
he however peremptorily refused to assent to any interference on the
part of a foreign Consul.

The Arabs as soon as they were certain of Ali's imprisonment, and of
their own freedom from danger, abandoned their tents and batteries and
flocked into the town. Their chief in vain called on them to remember
their promises of fidelity to his cause; he in vain entreated the
British Consul to interfere in his behalf; at length night coming on
he retired to his tent exhausted and dispirited, and fell asleep. On
awaking he found himself almost alone; the Sheiks with their followers
had all deserted him, and even Hadji Mohammed had sought refuge on
board of a British ship of war which lay in the harbor. With a few
followers the two young Princes then betook themselves to flight.
Hamet succeeded in reaching the frontiers of Egypt, but Emhammed,
overpowered by the sudden disappointment of all his hopes, blew out
his own brains with a blunderbuss on the day after he had left
Tripoli; at least such was the account of his death given by his
attendants.

Ali and his Minister Mohammed D'Ghies were sent to Constantinople;
what has been their fate we have as yet no means of ascertaining.
Hassuna D'Ghies after many mutations of fortune, is at present
established at Constantinople as the editor of the _Moniteur Ottoman_
the official Gazette of the Sultan. The old Pasha Yusuf who appeared
to be sinking into idiocy, remains in honorable durance in the castle,
where Hadji Mohammed Bet-el-Mel is allowed to attend him. Thus has the
Caramanli family been a second time deprived of the sovereignty of
Tripoli, which will not probably be regained by one of their name.




MOSES

PLEADING BEFORE PHARAOH.


_Scene_—The Council Hall of Pharoah—Moses, Aaron, and Elders of
Israel, awaiting the King's appearance.

_Time_—Supposed to be immediately prior to the Plague of Darkness.


_Aaron to Moses_.—Mark'st thou what troops are mustering round the
      palace?
  Behold the guards are doubled at the gates—
  The avenues are bristling with their spears;
  What may this mean?

_Moses_.—It means we are beset,
  And shall be dead ere night, if fierce Arbaces
  Can move the king to wrath; and he who sent us
  Permit our death.

_Aaron_.—My life may well be yielded;
  But must thou die, my brother, Heaven directed
  To be as God unto me? Hapless Israel,
  Mourn without comfort if thy prophet fall!

_Moses_.—Fear not for thy life or my own, God with us;
  Stand we before the king—for soon begins
  The work a thousand years shall not conclude.
  I feel assured our prayer will not be granted;
  And I behold the ills which angry heaven
  Will yet inflict on this devoted land:
  The tenfold plagues, the last dread retribution,
  The billowy grave prepar'd for Egypt's pride,
  I see as things which pass before my eyes.
  Our desert wanderings, perils and privations,
  Miraculous deliverance from them all—
  The solemn code in God's own thunder spoken,
  The weary struggle, and triumphant close
  Of Israel's sufferings, in that Land of Promise
  Which I shall see, but not survive to enter—
  Would I could see no more!
  Thou only God, worthy of Israel's worship,
  Who by the humblest instruments canst work
  Thy purposes of goodness, hear thy servant!
  Thou knowest that I am weak—be thou my strength;
  Thou knowest that I am dull and slow of speech—
  Do thou inspire such language as may sink
  Into a heart self-steel'd against thy will!
  Fill thought, and soul, and sense with thy idea,
  That I, so lately taken from the desert,
  May stand confess'd, tho' in a monarch's presence,
  The chosen servant of the King of Kings;
  And oh, if in the book of thy decrees
  There be a space by which this prince and people,
  Whom, spite of our deep wrongs, I cannot hate,
  May find thy mercy and escape this doom,
  Then let thy servant's prayer be even for Egypt,
  Which, though of late oppressive, once hath been
  Thy Israel's refuge in her utmost need.

PHARAOH AND HIS TRAIN ENTER.

_Pharaoh_, (_being seated_.)—Stand forward, Moses, and ye Hebrew
      leaders—
  Say, wherefore do ye trouble me again
  For that which I have sworn by all our Gods
  Never to grant while I am king of Egypt?

_Arbaces to Moses, observing that he made no obeisance_.
  And ere thou speakest to thy lord and master,
  Unmanner'd peasant, proud rebellious slave,
  Crouch to his throne, and gladly do that homage
  Which all the brave and highborn in the land,
  Honor'd and happy think themselves to render.

_Moses_.—The base prostration of an abject slave
  Can do no honor to a sovereign prince;
  As Pharoah's bondman I would not stand here,
  But keep aloof, and quietly fold my chains
  On arms which could not burst their links asunder;
  And as the ambassador of Israel's God,
  Call'd by his voice, sustain'd by boundless power,
  And prompted by his spirit, ne'er will I
  Bend to a sovereign who dishonors mine.

_Pharaoh_.—Wave we this question now; I stand not here
  On points of ceremony—say thy errand.

_Moses_.—In fear that thou wilt promise as before,
  And as before deceive us—yet in hope
  That thou mayst profit by the part I speak.
  The God we serve hath chosen Israel's children
  Forth of this land to spread his name and worship  {674}
  Throughout the earth—and by my voice he bids thee
  Release our tribes from bondage, and permit
  Their peaceable departure to the desert.

_Pharaoh_.—And who is Israel's God, that I should serve him?
  Or who the God of Abram, that my kingdom
  Should lose a million vassals at his word?

_Moses_.—Thou askest who is God? and how shall I,
  A worm but crawling on his footstool, tell thee?
  Or how wilt thou, so blinded by a worship
  Degrading beyond utterance, understand?
  Were every thought a ray direct from heaven,
  And every word an angel's, I might hope—
  But, Prince,—the Deity I serve is God
  And Lord of Hosts; his name the Great Jehovah,
  Supreme, Omniscient, present every where—
  Strong to destroy, omnipotent to save.
  By his command—the breathing of his will—
  Beam'd in existence yonder brilliant orb—
  The infinite host of heaven—the fruitful earth
  Thou walk'st on and enjoyest, knowing little
  Of regions close around thee, and but nothing
  Of realms unmatch'd in beauty, which thy sons,
  In the hundredth generation, will not see—
  Nor dream of their existence. He alone
  Can truly claim our gratitude for blessings
  Shower'd without stint or measure on our heads,
  Love, worship, loyalty, and true obedience,
  But mix'd with wholesome fear. Not for thy throne,
  With power a hundred fold of that thou hast—
  Not for the sway of hosts innumerable
  As sands in yonder desert—or the wealth
  That earth contains and may produce through ages—
  For giant strength, or patriarch's length of days—
  Knowing Jehovah, would I tempt his wrath,
  Or brave the stroke of his destroying arm.

_Pharaoh_.—Hast thou e'er seen the God of whom thou speakest?

_Moses_.—In his essential spiritual being? never!
  Nor ever shall, until this mortal frame
  Dissolve into the dust from whence it came,
  And my emancipated spirit fly:
  I trust and hope to dwell with him forever.
  But in the unconsum'd, tho' burning bush,
  Of which I spake when first I came to thee,
  I have beheld the outward manifestation
  Of his great presence, and have heard him speak
  His holy purpose, and expound to me
  What I should say—how plead with thee for freedom.

_Pharaoh_.—Apis and Isis are the Gods of Egypt—
  And many more my ancestors have worshipped;
  I too will serve them, nor embrace a faith
  Preach'd by a leader of insurgent slaves,
  Or such as would be so. But did Jehovah,
  The God thou vauntest, prompt thee with a fraud?
  Hast thou not striven t' amuse me with the thought
  That sacrifice alone required your journey
  Into the wilderness? and when deception
  Might not avail, hast thou not own'd thy purpose,
  And claim'd a right to quit the land forever?

_Moses_.—The crowned king who broke his solemn promise
  To let our tribes depart, might well have spar'd
  A pointless sarcasm and unjust reproach
  To human policy. If I have stoop'd
  So far as not to tell thee _all_ the truth,
  Be sure it was to spare thy pride alone,
  And naught beside. But glance thine eye around—
  Behold our people helpless and unarm'd,
  Beaten with stripes, o'erlabor'd, driven and watch'd
  By spears of vigilant armies. Be thou judge
  If that deliverance can be their achievement,
  Or less than God can free them from thy hands;
  Then say if purpos'd fraud can be a means
  With him who wrought such wonders in the land.
  Let us depart, great prince. The voice of Justice,
  True wisdom's dictates, and thy prescient fears
  Of greater evils yet befalling Egypt,
  All speak one word; that word—Emancipation.

_Pharaoh_.—Setting aside thy magic, or the wrath,
  If such it be, of Israel's God, what wisdom
  Worthy a prince's thought, would be in this?

_Moses_.—The highest and the greatest—that which chooses
  Nobly t' endure a smaller present evil,
  And shun a distant great calamity.
  As truly as the waves of distant ocean,
  Chasing each other, rise by turns and fall—
  As truly as the air, surcharged with heat,
  Gendereth the thunderstorm which clears and cools it—
  So surely, in the troubled sea of life,
  Wrong wreaketh wrong, and evil followeth evil,
  And moral tempests purge the crimes of nations.
  When will the sons of men be taught this lesson?
  What tears, what blood must flow, what lands be ravaged,
  What empires overthrown, or peopled only
  With widows and with orphans, ere they learn it?
  The wrong is ours, but such redress we seek not;
  God hath our quarrel taken in his hands:
  Our fathers journey'd here, th' invited guests
  Of Egypt's king, and were by him receiv'd
  With hospitality and royal bounty,
  Which well became a prince whom Joseph serv'd.
  I need not tell thee of the slow encroachments
  By which the alien guests became thy subjects,
  Or call to mind the hard and stern decree
  Which, in a day, transferr'd us from subjection
  To chain'd and absolute bondage; or the edict
  Which gave our sons to death as soon as born:
  These things are fresh in memory—but oblivion
  Shall cover all, if thou but set us free.

_Pharaoh, to one of his Council_.—Osirion, I have ever held thee
      wise;
  Speak thy opinion of this man's petition.

_Osirion_.—Most gracious prince, as briefly as I may.
  The past experience fully proves this truth,
  That in all prosperous and happy lands
  There is a chain of order and gradation.
  Vicegerents, counsellors, governors, warlike chiefs,
  Subservient leaders, freeborn subjects, slaves,
  Link within link, each in its proper place,
  And guided by the sovereign hand alone.
  Who is not bound on earth? If any can
  Be free from all control save that of heaven,
  The greatest and the wisest only should. (_Bowing to Pharoah_.)
  Another truth is this—that be a nation
  Govern'd as though the Gods themselves were here,
  And order'd all things that we do on earth,  {675}
  There will be innovators—men who seek
  For their own ends to break establish'd usage,
  And raise a storm of discord and commotion,
  No matter what it wreck, so they be wafted
  To the point they have in view; and never yet
  Have they begun their work at the fountain head
  Of a nation's wisdom, but by base appeals
  To the lowest passions of the vulgar herd,
  Furious and blind as snakes in the summer heat.
  This man, half hypocrite and half fanatic,
  Nurtur'd from childhood by thy royal sister—
  Rear'd in thy palaces, and stor'd with learning
  The most profound that Egypt could afford—
  In our religious mysteries deeply skill'd,
  And taking rank among our wisest magi—
  Bold, politic and crafty, aims no doubt
  To organize and sway a faith and nation
  Broadly distinct from all upon the earth.
  What asks he at thy hands? Emancipation!
  Claim'd too of right, with most rebellious threats,
  Even to thy face, on thy presum'd refusal—
  And with what justice, Pharaoh, thou mayst judge.
  Israel hath sojourned here four hundred years—
  Thriven on our soil—found refuge here from famine—
  Had Goshen for a heritage—and shar'd
  Peace and protection with thy native subjects;
  Shall they not share the vassalage and toil?
  Nor see I aught unjust that they should be
  Bondmen to those who fed and guarded them.
  Throughout the world there must be slaves and masters;
  The features of these men, their creed, their language,
  And barbarous right of circumcision, mark
  Them as a race made to be known as slaves:
  And whether it were just t' enthrall these tribes,
  Pharaoh, concerns not thee or us. Our sires
  Bequeath'd the heritage of sway to us,
  And their's entail'd the slavery on their sons.
  Never, I trust, will I behold the day
  When, at the bidding of a God unseen
  By us, and even by him who takes his name,
  These slaves be yielded, and the broad foundation,
  Our social fabric's base, be taken away.
  True policy, the guide which, when a king
  Forsakes his throne's security, is gone,
  Cries loudly to detain them. Where will be
  The public works which make thy name eternal,
  And raise thy kingdom to the loftiest height
  Of national glory, if these men be freed?
  And where the quiet obedience of thy subjects,
  When those who were their menials, and perform'd
  All offices of drudgery, are gone?
  Let these men be arrested, and their bodies
  Detained as hostages for Egypt's safety.

_Pharaoh to Moses_.—Hear'st thou?

_Moses_.—I grieve that thou who hast beheld
  God's visits unto Egypt mark'd with ruin,
  Canst reason yet, and listen too to others,
  As if it were with me, and not my Maker,
  Thou had'st to deal. Do I not know these magi—
  Their priestly craft and worthless jugglery?
  Presume not too far on thy power t' oppress.
  Though proof against remorse for what is past—
  Though deaf unto the cries of slaves in bondage,
  And dumb when words of freedom should be spoken,
  Prince, be not blind to thine own dearest interests—
  Stake not thy life, thy honor and thy crown,
  Thy people's safety, and thy kingdom's strength,
  Upon the words of the most shallow fools
  That ever tempted man to his destruction.
  Trust not their crooked policy, which bids thee
  Prefer _convenient wrong_ to truth and justice;
  Do that thy conscience whispers thee is right,
  And leave the rest to him who sent me hither.
  The God of Israel is the God of Egypt,
  And though unhonored, careth for her sons.

_Pharaoh to Arbaces_.—Arbaces, give thy counsel.

_Arbaces_.—King of Egypt,
  The sharpest evils need the sharpest cures.
  Here, in the very grasp of thy great power,
  Stands open-mouth'd rebellion; all the chiefs
  And advocates of Hebrew discontent
  Are now before thee: speak but thou the word,
  And ere an hour be past, their traitorous heads
  Shall grace thy palace wall, and their torn limbs
  Be sent through Goshen and the land of Egypt,
  A dreadful warning—and my life shall answer
  For peace hereafter, and most tame submission
  From all thy Hebrew vassals.

_Pharaoh, to Moses_.—Hearest thou?

_Moses_.—I hear, and smile to hear it. God of mercy!
  Look not with utter scorn on thy creation,
  Nor let thy anger rise, that these poor worms
  With barely light to view the rapid stream
  On which they drift from time to eternity,
  Must purple it with blood, and freely deal
  Death and extermination on each other,
  As though thy uncreated power and thunders
  Were all thy own, and thou hadst never been.

_Pharaoh, to Arbaces_.—T' imprison him and let him live, were folly—
  And I have yielded to my sister's prayers
  He should not die, unless the Hebrews rise
  In servile war against us. (_To Moses_.) Thou mayst leave me,
  And go where'er thou choosest; but thy people
  Go not in peace while I am king of Egypt.

_Moses_.—The wisdom that would point thee to the path
  Of peace, of honor, and thy Maker's favor,
  Is lost on thee, and all appeals to justice
  As well were made unto the marble steps
  That base thy throne. But though thou fearest not now,
  Hereafter thou wilt tremble, and it may be,
  Own, when too late, the God thou now despisest.
  Once more I must address thee. King of Egypt,
  I charge thee in the name of High Jehovah,
  Let all the Hebrews quit thy land in peace,
  And bear their wives, their offspring, and their goods
  Far from thy utmost limits, never more
  To own thy sceptre, or to call thee Lord.
  Nor send them empty handed. Let them take
  From thine own subjects aught that may be needed
  For journeying in the desert. Sayst thou no?
  Then on thy country, from the king, who sits
  Upon his throne, down to the meanest peasant,
  The curse, the peril, and the plague will fall.
  Darkness and tempests, pestilence and death
  Shall triumph yet, and wring the very hearts
  Of men grown faint and sick with utter ruin.  {676}
  Nor this the worst. If then thy haughty soul
  Experience cannot teach, or suffering bend,
  Th' outstretched arm of God himself will sweep
  Thee and thy legions from the earth forever.
  And when yon pyramids, the unsolv'd enigma
  Of future ages, rais'd by stripes and groans
  Of trampled Israel—piles which thou hast built,
  As if t' outlast the world on which they stand,
  Are batter'd by barbarians, or have crumbled
  Beneath the sure and silent hand of time,
  The story of thy overthrow shall be
  Had in remembrance, and the name of Pharaoh
  A living proverb in the mouths of men
  For harden'd heart and blind infatuation.

_Pharaoh_.—And durst thou threaten me, thou sorcerer?
  Out of my presence—I defy thy magic,
  Disown thy God, and scoff at his commands.

_Moses_.—Aye, wage thy puny strength against th' Almighty,
  And feel his power, whoso name thou dost blaspheme.
  See in what splendor rides the sun above us;
  Few moments more will blot it from thy sight.
  (_Raising his rod to Heaven_.) Shadows of night, arise! and let the
      gloom,
  That mantled space, before the stars of heaven
  Hail'd the first dawning of their God's creation,
  Envelope Egypt! Yea, let utter darkness,
  Intense as pride in this besotted prince,
  Black as their thoughts who counsel him to murder,
  Enduring, all-pervading, palpable,
  Even to the sense of feeling, rayless, cheerless,
  Be as a funeral pall upon this land!

_Pharaoh_.—Another plague. Beware, or thou mayst find
  The faith I plighted to my sister fail,
  And but for that thou hadst been dead ere now.

_Officers_.—Guard us from ruin, now, ye Gods of Egypt!
  See, Pharaoh! see, the deepest midnight rising
  Round heaven's extremest verge, and merging fast
  Towards the fading sun, whose sickly beams
  Flicker and die before the gathering horror.
  Great prince, relent, and let this people go;
  Should Egypt be destroy'd, to keep her slaves——

_Pharaoh_.—Peace, on your lives! and you, ye Hebrew leaders,
  Approach while I can see ye. I know not,
  Or care to know, if this be incantation,
  Or work of other Gods than those of Egypt;
  But while I live, and hold the sceptre here,
  Tho' all the accumulated gloom of hell,
  And all its plagues be wasted on the land,
  I will not let ye go, or bate one tittle
  Of royal right to hold ye in subjection.
  (_To Moses_.) Listen, and mark my words! they touch thy life:
  Go from my presence, nor return unsummon'd—
  For in the day thou seest me thou shalt die.

_Moses_.—Thou hast said well—I'll see thy face no more.




NOMS DE GUERRE.


Balzac's real name was Guez—Metastasio's was Trapasso—Melancthon's
Hertz Schwartz—Erasmus' Gerard.




TO ANNA.


  Full forty years have fled away
  Since first we hailed the wedding day,
  And I've been blest, as well I may,
                              With Anna.

  Though thou wert young, and tender too,
  When first I sought thy heart to woo,
  Thou'st never been unkind, untrue,
                              My Anna.

  If bent with sickness, woe, or care,
  Who offered up the sigh, the prayer,
  Or proved a watchful angel there?
                              My Anna.

  The stream of life may roughly glide,
  And I in anguish may be tried;
  I'll not repine, if by my side
                              Is Anna.

  When dwindling from me one by one,
  My num'rous sunshine friends were gone,
  Who lingered still and loved me on?
                              My Anna.

  Whilst others live in jarring strife,
  We pass a calm, contented life—
  I daily bless my matchless wife,
                              My Anna.

  O, never can affliction move
  The depth, the truth of woman's love!
  For grief and pain would only prove
                              My Anna.

  And when the closing hour draws near
  In which I quit this earthly sphere,
  I'll die repeating to her ear,
                              My Anna!

C.




LINES.


  Oh! there's a light in woman's eye—
    A liquid light—a living ray—
  Which gleams upon our pilgrim path,
    And guides us o'er life's rugged way:
  A magic sound in woman's sigh—
    A thrilling tone—so soft, so sweet,
    That, like the harp of Æolus,
  It seems a voice for angel meet,
    Wailing a lost one from on high.

IGNOTUS.




BIBLES.


The first Polyglot Bible is that of Cardinal Ximenes, printed in 1515.
It contains the Hebrew text, the Chaldaic Paraphrase, the Greek
Septuagint, and the ancient Latin edition. The second is the Royal
Bible, Anvers, 1572: the third that of Le Jay, Paris, 1645: the fourth
that of England, London, 1657, edited by Walton. There are many since,
but of less celebrity.


{677}


CLASSICAL BIBLIOGRAPHY.


_Mr. Editor_—The following list of the editions of the classics
fittest to enter into a literary collection of the Roman and Greek
authors, was drawn up, a little while since, at the request of a
friend, who is beginning to appropriate, out of his income, an annual
sum to the forming of a private library. The series indicated is such
as is recommended by the convenience of their form, the general
goodness of their typographical execution, the correctness of their
text, and the usefulness of a commentary, from which all that sort of
erudition is excluded, which perpetually misses or goes beyond the
mark. In such a plan, the mere luxury of editions—the pursuit of the
rare, or curious, or costly, apart from more serious excellence—is, of
course, to be disregarded. Beyond mere uniformity of size, I would
make no sacrifice to the Graces; nor this, but that the octavo form
combines the differing advantages of compactness and bulk. It neither
forbids, by its diminutiveness, all explanation of the text; nor
confounds you, like a folio, with the trivialities of an eternal
erudition. It is, too, the form in which editions have been multiplied
the most; so that it can offer, in a cheap but agreeable dress, almost
every thing with which learning has elucidated the ancient writers.

I myself do not slight the passion of the mere book-fancier. In a
country where the wealthiest and best-born of the land lavish their
annual thousands, for the praise of possessing stud horses of the most
honorable lineage, or that they may enjoy, through life, the society
of grooms and trainers, it would be, perhaps, not amiss if, for mere
diversity's sake, some less illiterate follies were introduced. Are
the brawling and boorish fox-hunter, or the super-subtle man of the
turf (races rapidly becoming the reproach of English manners and
tastes) all that our men of fortune can imitate among the English
gentry? Their ancestral mansions, adorned with whatever art or science
can accumulate of beautiful or curious: their delightful
pleasure-grounds, where the picturesque creates a thousand charmingly
disposed landscapes: their museums of antiquities—their rich galleries
of pictures—their master-pieces of sculpture—their noble and learned
private libraries, the chief pride and ornament of every wealthy
residence—when, alas! shall we, instead of what is coarsest and most
immoral and least intellectual in the habits and amusements of English
life, rise to even the idler and more puerile parts of Taste and
Letters—the follies of the Virtuoso and the Bibliomaniac?

But “revenons à nos moutons:” let us get back to our ancients; of
whom, I believe, you will find the annexed list a careful and a
copious one. I have consulted, in compiling it, the following leading
authorities: Morhof, _Polyhistor Literarius_; Fabricius, _Bibliotheca
Graeca_; Idem, _Bibliotheca Latina Vetus_; Idem, _Bibliographia
Antiquaria_; Idem, _Historia Bibliothecae suae_; Saxius, _Onomasticon
Literarium_; Saldenus, _De Libris corumque usu et abusu_; Panzer,
_Annales_; Renouard, _Annales des Aldes_; Cave's _Chartophylax_; Le
Clerc, _Bibliothèque Universelle_; Idem, _Bibliothèque Choisie_;
Bayle, _Dictionaire historique, &c._; the great French _Biographie
Universelle_; Barbier, _Dictionaire des Anonymes et pseudonymes_;
Cailleau, _Dictionaire bibliographique_; Harwood, _View of the
Classics_; Adam Clarke, _Bibliographical Dictionary and Miscellany_;
Dibdin, _Guide to the Classics_; Moss, _Classical Bibliography_;
Dunlop, _Roman Literature_; Schoell, _Littérature Grecque_;
Hartshorne, _Book rarities of the University of Cambridge_; Bent's
_London Catalogues_; Idem, _Literary Advertiser_; Anthon's
_Lempriere's Dictionary_; Watts's _Bibliotheca Britannica_; Lowndes's
_Bibliographer's Manual_; but, much more than all, Brunet's excellent,
exact, eminently useful _Manuel du Libraire_—a book which should be in
the hands of every man attempting to pursue any thing like systematic
study.

Editions of a series of Greek and Roman classics, 8vo. _cum notis
selectis variorum_.

Achilles Tatius, (_Clitophon et Leucippe_) Heliodorus, (_Æthiopica_)
Longus, (_Daphnis et Chloe_) et Xenophon, (_Ephesiaca_.) Bipont,
1792-4. Four parts in 3 vols. 8vo. 25 francs.

Ælian I would omit—both his _Historia Animalium_ and his _Variae
Historiae_.

Æschines—in the Greek orators; which see.

Æschylus, _Tragædiae_, (à Schutz.) London: 1823, 5 vols. 8vo. 2_l_.
12_s_. 6_d_. It has the Scholia, and Schutz's Notes.

Æsop, _Fabulae_, Gr. et Lat. Leipsic: 1810, 8vo. Cum notis vario. et
de Furia: accedunt dissertationes Tyrwhitt de Babrio, Huschkii de
Archilocho, et Bentleii de Æsopo. There is a cotemporary, and perhaps
more esteemed edition, by Coray, (Paris, 8vo.) but I should prefer the
first, for the Accessus.

Agathemerus (_Geographia_) I would omit, till they publish the new
edition of Scriptores Geographiæ Minores.

Alcæus, Fragmenta. Halæ: 1810—à Stange, 8vo. 5 francs.

Alciphron. I would omit his Epistles, or buy the cheap 8vo. edition of
Utrecht, 1791. 3 to 4 francs.

Ammianus Marcellinus. Leipsic, 1773, 8vo. ab Ernesti. It is regarded
as one of his best editions. There is an admirable Glossary to it. 13
shillings.

Ammonius _de adfinium vocabulorum differentia_, I would not have.

Anacreon, à Fischer. Leipsic, 1793, 8vo. fine paper. 16 to 18 francs.

Andronicus Rhodius, I would omit.

Anonymi Ravennatis _Geographia_, à Porcheron. Paris. 1688, 8vo. 4 to 5
francs.

Anthologia Græca, à Brunck et Jacobs et Paulsen, Leipsic, 1813-17, 4
vols. 8vo. 90 francs.

Antiphon, Andocides, &c. See Greek orators.

Antoninus Imperator, _Meditationes_, Græco—Lat. à Gattaker. Oxford,
1704, 8vo. The notes are short; it contains a few epistles, judged
spurious—5 to 7 francs: or the Leipsic reprint of 1729, 8vo. 5 to 6
francs.

Antoninus Liberalis, _Transformationes_. Græc. Lat.—cum Munckeri
notis, et Verheyk. Leyden, 1774, 8vo. 8 to 10 francs.

Aphtonius, _Progymnasmata_. I would omit him, unless I wished a
rhetorical collection.

Apollodorus, _Bibliotheca_. Græc. Lat. à Heyne. Göttingen, 1803, 2
vols. 8vo. It is regarded as a mine of mythological learning. 24
francs.

Apollonius Dyscolus should be omitted.

Apollonius Rhodius, _Argonautica_, à Wellauer. Leipsig, 1828, 2 vols.
8vo.—or Brunck, Leipsig, 1810, 2 vols. 8vo. 20 francs.

{678} Apollonius Sophista, I would omit.

Appian Alexandrinus, _Historia_, à Schweighæuser. Lipsiæ, 1783-5, 3
large 8vos. to bind in 6: 54 francs. It is regarded as this
commentator's best performance.

Apuleius, Opera. Bipont, 8vo. It stands next to the 4to. edition of
Oudendorp & Rhunken. Leyden, 1786. The latter costs probably 40 to 50
francs.

Aratus, _Phaenomena_ and _Diosemia_, à Buhle. Lipsiæ, 1796-1808, 2
vols. 8vo. 23 francs.

Archilochus, _Reliquiae_, edente Liebel. Lipsiæ, 1812, 2 vols. 8vo. 13
francs.

Archimedes, I would omit, as having no literary value.

Aristides, _Orationes_,—among the orators.

Aristænetus, _Epistolae Eroticae_, Boissonade. Paris, 1822, 8vo.

Aristarchus. I would omit him, unless in a grammatical collection, or
in a mathematical one.

Aristæus, _Historia LXX Interpretum_, I would omit, as supposititious,
though curious for the discussion that it involves. Hodius's is the
edition that contains it; and is also the best. Oxford, 1692, 8vo. 3
to 5 francs.

Aristophanes, _Comœdiae_, à Brunck. Oxford, 1810, 4 vols. 8vo. with
Lexicon Aristophanicum of Sanxay, as 5th vol. (Oxford, 1811,) about
2_l_.

Aristotle, _Opera_, Buhle. Bipont, 1791-9, 5 vols. 8vo. contain the
_Organon_, _Rhetorica_ and _Poetica_. The rest is not likely to be
ever given: add, therefore,

Aristotelis _Ethica_, à Wilkinson, Oxford, 1818, 8vo. 9 frs.

Aristotelis _Politica et Economica_, Schneider. Oxford, 1810, 2 vols.
8vo. 18 frs.

Arrian, _Opera Omnia_, à Borheck, Lemgoviæ, 1792, 1811, 3 vols. 8vo.
18 frs. Or

Arrian, _Tactica_, _Periplus Euxini_, _Periplus Erythræi_, _de
Venatione_, à Blancard. Amsterdam, 1683 or 1750, 8vo. 9 to 12 frs.

Arrian, _Expeditio_, _et Indica_, à Raphelio. Amsterdam, 1757, 8vo.

Artemidorus, _Oneirocritica_, I would omit, unless I formed a
collection of the whole class of writers on Divination, &c.

Athenæus, _Deipnosophistae_, à Schweighæuser. Argentorati, 1801-7, 14
vols. 8vo. 188 frs.

Aulus Gellius, _Noctes Atticæ_, à Gronovio. Leyden, 1686 or 7, 8vo. 10
a 15 frs.

Ausonius. I would take him only in a collection: but if apart, the
edition of Tollius. Amsterdam, 1671, 8vo. 15 frs.

Avianus, _Fabulae_, à Cannegieter. Amsterdam, 1731, 8vo. 8 a 12 frs.

Avienus. I would take him in the collection of _Poetae latini minores_
(Wernsdorf.)

Babrius. See Æsop.

Barclay. His _Argenis_ is often brought into this sort of collection.
Leyden, 1664-9, 8 vols. 8vo. 10 to 15 frs.

Bion, Moschus and Theocritus. The beautiful edition from Bodoni's
press, (Zamagna's version; no notes) 1792, 12 to 18 frs. Or, for use,

Valcknaer's excellent edition of 1781. Leyden, 8vo. 12 frs.

Boetius, _de Consolatione_, Bertii. Leyden, 1671, 8vo. 10 to 12 frs.

Cæsar, ab Oberlino. Lipsiæ, 1805, 8vo. 15 frs. papier fin.

Callimachus, Ernesti. Leyden, 1761, 8vo.

Calphurnius, _Eclogae_, I would omit, or get in a collection.

Martianus Capella. This is only worth attention as the first attempt
in scholarship of Hugo Grotius, (then 15 years old.) Leyden, 1599,
8vo. It is worth from 20 to 30 francs, with portraits of the P. de
Condé and Grotius: but much less, when wanting these.

Catullus, Tibullus èt Propertius. The best edition is Vulpius's, of
which the entire set (4 vols. 4to.) is a dear book. In 8vo. the
edition of Gabbema, Utrecht, 1659, (in Italics) is perhaps to be
preferred. Price about 9 francs. That of Grævius (1680) is much
dearer, and scarcely so good. There is a very good Bipont one, which
has the fragments of Gallus and the _Pervigilium Veneris_, 1783, 8vo.
It has, also, a good notitia Literaria; which forms, indeed, one of
the good points common to many of the Deux-ponts books.

Celsus, I would omit, as also Censorinus, _de die natali_.

Chariton, _Chaerea et Callirhoe_, à Reiske. Lipsiæ, 1783, 8vo. 12 a 15
frs.

Chion, _Epistolae_, (à Hoffman), cum fragmentis Memnonis, ab Orélli.
Lipsiæ, 1816, 8 vo. Their authenticity is examined by Hoffman.

Cicero, _Opera_. Of the 8vo. editions, Ernesti's, Halle, 1776-7, 5 in
8 vols. 8vo. (with E.'s Clavis), 60 to 80 frs. (best paper) is good.
Shùtz's, Lipsiæ, 1814-18, 18 vols. 8vo. is perhaps still better, 100
frs. It has, in the last volume, a good Index latinitatis.

Le Clerc's. Paris, 1827, 35 vols. large 12mo. with French translation
_en regard_, is the only edition that is by any means complete. It
contains a preliminary discourse; Plutarch's life, translated; a
supplement from Middleton's; a copious bibliography of editions. In
the 34th and 35th volumes, it has the Apochrypha and Fragments—the
Invective against Sallust, and Reply; Discourse to the people, before
going into exile; Letter to Octavius; Treatises on the supposititious
works. In the 35th volume are Fragments, with an account of the
discoveries made among the Palimpsestes, since 1814, with conjectures
towards the yet undiscovered works; Fragments of Speeches, Letters,
Philosophical works, Poems, and the apochryphal de Consolatione, with
an Introduction. It seems to me a very agreeable literary edition. How
far it is a critical one, I have never seen any authoritative
decision. Though much ampler than any other, it has not, of course,
the parts of orations published about 1830, by Maius, in his
Scriptores Classici e Codicibus Vaticanis.

To complete Ernesti's or Schùtz's, the Respublica and these fragments
are, of course, necessary.

Claudian, à Gesner. Lipsiæ, 1759, 2 vols. 8vo. 15 to 18 frs. best
paper. There is also an esteemed edition by Barthius, first published,
with much applause, when he was less than 20 years old. Hannover,
1612, 8vo. This, however, was one of his riper works: for he published
the Psalms translated into Latin verse, at 12; and at 16, a work on
the method of reading the Latin authors, from Ennius downwards.

Cœlius Apicius, _De opsoniis et condimentis_, by Dr. Martin Lister.
Amsterdam, 1709, 8vo. 8 a 12 frs.

Coluthus, _Raptus Helenae_. Not worth having; but if taken, the
edition of Bekker. Berlin, 1816, 8vo. It is the best text, and has
seven additional verses—which are not unimportant, in a poem of
380—unless the whole should chance to be of no merit, as in this case.

{679} Conon is of little importance, even as to mythology. He may be
taken in Gale's collection—Scriptores antiqui Historiæ poeticæ.

Cornelius Nepos, à Fischero. Lipsiæ, 1806, 8vo. It is edited by
Harles, and regarded as an excellent performance. In fine paper, 15
frs.

Corripus, I would omit—as also Demetrius Cydnus, and Demetrius
Phalereus.

Curtius (Quintus), à Pitisco. Hague, 1708, 8vo. 15 a 20 frs.

Dares Phrygius. See Dictys Cretensis.

Demosthenes, may be taken in the collection of Greek Orators, by
Reiske. Lipsiæ, 1770-5, 12 vols. 8vo. Isocrates alone is wanting, in
this collection.

Dictys Cretensis is a forgery not worth having, except in mere
illustration of the Chivalric Romances; of which it is largely the
source. Take the edition à Perizonio, Amsterdam, 1702, 8vo. 15 to 18
frs. It includes Dares Phrygius.

Diodorus Siculus, à Wesselingio. Bipont, 1790-1806, 11 vols. 8vo. 108
frs. The 11th contains indexes. It has a good notitia literaria, Essay
on the Sources, &c.

Diogenes Laertius à Longolio. Curiæ Regnit. 1739, 8vo. 18 a 24 frs.

Dion Cassius. There exists no 8vo. edition. That of Reimar, Hamburg,
1750, 2 vols. fol. 84 to 96 frs. is far the best. There is a late
cheap one, by Schaefer. Lipsiæ, 1818, (Græce,) 4 vols. 18mo. 15 frs.

Dion Chrysostom. His Orations are published by Reiske, but without a
Latin version. They match, in form and appearance, his Oratores
Attici, 2 vols. 8vo. Lipsiæ, 1784 or 98. 25 frs.

Dionysius Alexandrinus, _Orbis descriptio_, à Wells. Oxford, 1704 or
9, 8vo. 6 a 9 frs.

Dionysius the Areopagite. Not now accounted authentic.

Dionysius Halicarnasseus, _Antiquitates, &c._ à Reiske. Lipsiæ, 1774,
6 vols. 8vo. 80 to 96 frs. The last volume (unfinished at R.'s death)
is by Morus, as is the interesting life of Reiske.

Epictetus, _Enchiridion, fragmenta, et Dissertationes ab Arriano
digestæ_, Schweighæuser. Lipsiæ, 1799, 4 vols. 8vo. 54 frs. Add the
Commentary of Simplicius, by the same editor. Leipsig, 1800, 2 vols.
8vo. 27 francs. These form a dear, but the most valuable edition.

Epicurus, _Physica et Meteorologica_. I would omit these, as every
thing else not having a literary value. We want the taste and the
history of the ancients—not their science.

Eratosthenes and Euclid may be omitted, for the same reason. Of the
latter, however, Van Loin's edition, Amsterdam, 1738, 8vo. 4 or 5 frs.
or Baerman's, Leipsig, 1769, 8vo. 3 to 4 frs. is usually taken for
such collections as this.

Euripides, _Tragœdiae_. Glasgow, 1820, 9 vols. 8vo. 7_l_. 17_s_. 6_d_.
It has the Scholia and the entire notes of Barnes, Beckh, Brunck,
Burney, Elmsley, Herman, Hoepfner, Markland, Monk, Musgrave, Porson,
Seidler, Valcknaer, Wakefield, &c. as well as a copious index.

Eustathias, _Ismeniae et Ismenis Amores_, 8vo. Paris, 1618, ed.
Gaulmin. They are now regarded as the production of Eumathes, a
grammarian of the 14th century, not of the Scholiast. There should be
45 pp. of notes at the end of this edition.

Eutropius, à Verheyk. Leyden, 1762, 8vo. It has the Greek paraphrase
of Pæanius, and the breviary of Sextus Rufus, with a very copious and
judicious selection of notes, 12 a 16 frs.

Florus, _Breviarium_. Bipont, 1810, 8vo. 4 frs: a good edition.

Frontinus, I would omit, with the other Strategetics; or buy them all
(the Latin ones) in the collection at the head of which stands
Vegetius; whom _see_.

Fronto. The fragments of his Orations, published by Maius, (Milan,
1815, 2 vols. 8vo.) are, I fancy, too inconsiderable or disjointed to
be worth having.

Gemistus Pletho, it is not worth while to have.

Geographiæ Veteris Scriptores Græci (Minores)—a valuable and necessary
book, but too enormously dear to be purchased. A new edition has been
long in expectation. The old (Oxford, 1698-1712, 4 vols. 8vo.) sells
for no less than 80 to 100 dollars. It contains Hanno, Scylax,
Agatharchides, Arrian, Nearchus, Heracleotes, Dicæarchus, Isidorus,
Scymnus, Agathemerus, Various Excerpts, Anonymi expositio Mundi,
Ptolemæi Arabia, Abulfedæ Chorasmia, Ejusdem Arabia, Excerpta varia,
Dionysii Orbis Descriptio.

The Geoponici, I would omit.

Hecatæus of Abdera. Mere fragments.

—— of Miletus, in Creuzer's Historicorum Græcorum Vetustissimorum
Fragmenta. Heidelberg, 1806, 8vo. They also include part of the
preceding. The price I cannot ascertain.

Heliodorus. In the Scriptores Erotici. See Achilles Tatius.

Hellanicus. His fragments were published by Sturz. Leipsig, 1787, 8vo.

Hermogenes Sophista. His _Ars Rhetorica_ (Coloniæ, 1614, 8vo.) I would
leave for a collection of another sort.

Herodian, à Ruddiman, 8vo. Edinburg, 1724, 4 frs.

Herodotus. Schweighæuser's, (Paris, 1816, 6 vols. 8vo.) is generally
esteemed the best edition. 90 frs. A new and valuable edition (by
Bähr) is in progress in Germany—the first volume already out. The
Translation of Larcher, (Paris, 1802, 9 vols. 8vo.) has valuable
geographical illustrations. There are, besides, those of Rennel and
Niebuhr—the latter printed in an English translation, London, 1830,
8vo. The Lexicon Ionicum of Portus is likewise an important aid to the
study of H. (Oxford, 1810, 8vo. 9 frs.)

Hesiod, à Loesnero. Lipsiæ, 1778, 8vo. 15 a 18 frs.

Hierocles, _Commentarii in Aurea Carmina_, à Warran. London, 1742,
8vo. 10 to 12 frs. The _Facetiæ_ passing under his name are usually
esteemed supposititious. His _de Providentia et Fato_ are not sought
for.

Himerius Sophista. His _Eclogæ et Declamationes_, may safely be
omitted.

Hippocrates, I would also omit in this collection. If he be taken, the
edition of Vander Linden, (Leyden, 1665, 2 vols. 8vo.) is the proper
one, but is very dear; common copies of it selling at from 60 to 80
frs.

Historiæ Augustæ Scriptores, I would not embrace in this collection.
Suetonius and Eutropius you will have already taken, in another form.
Spartian, Julius Capitolinus, Elius Lampridius, Trebellius Pollio, and
Vopiscus are without literary value. The 8vo. edition of Leyden (1671,
2 vols.) is both an indifferent and dear book. It sells for 27 to 36
francs; while the esteemed folio edition of Paris, 1620, by Salmasius,
sells at from 8 to 10 frs.

{680} Historiæ Poeticæ Scriptores antiqui, à Gale—embracing
Apollodorus, Conon, Ptolemæus, Parthenius, Antoninus Liberalis; with
his Dissertatio de Scriptoribus Mythologicis—may be let alone. The
single edition is that of Paris, 1675, 8vo., worth 15 to 24 frs. It
sometimes is dated London, 1676.

Homer. Ernesti's (Lipsiæ, 1759, 5 vols. 8vo., or its beautiful and
faithful reprint, by Foulis, Glasgow, 1814, 5 vols. 8vo.—the latter
having also Wolf's prolegomena) is the best general edition, costing
100 francs in the first form, and 120 in the second. The edition of
Wolf (Lipsiæ, 1804-7, 4 vols. 8vo. 20 francs) should also be
possessed; nor is it possible to omit mentioning Heyne's very esteemed
edition of the Iliad. Lipsiæ, 1802, 8 vols. 8vo.

Horace, à Gesner, cum notis Zeunii. Leipsic, 1788; or Glasgow, 1794,
8vo. 10 to 20 frs. Bentley's emendations and notes have no doubt done
much towards the elucidation of Horace; but, as a commentary, Gesner's
is certainly preferable. Bentley's edition, however, as reprinted at
Leipsig, 1764, 2 vols. 8vo. (15 to 20 frs.) may be added to the
forgoing.

Hyginus. I would omit him, with the other mythologues.

Isæi Orationes, in Reiske's Orators.

Isocrates, Orationes et Epistolæ, à Coray. Paris, 1807, 2 vols. 8vo.
21 frs. The notes, in modern Greek, are very valuable. A learned
disquisition on the Greek education and tongue is prefixed.

Jamblichus may be fairly let alone with the mystagogues.

Josephus, à Havercamp et Hudson. Lipsiæ, 1782-5, 3 vols. 8vo. 80
francs. A volume of Commentary and Index was to have followed. I do
not know if it has ever appeared.

Julian Apostate. His _Cæsares_ (Heusinger, Gotha, 1736, 8vo. 6 to 8
frs.) and his _In Constantii laude Oratio_ (Schæfer, Leipsig, 1802,
8vo. 7 frs.) may be taken.

St. Justin may be omitted in this collection.

Justinian, Corpus Juris Civilis, &c. omit.

Justin. Bipont edition, 1784, or Argentorati, 1802, 8vo. 5 frs. Very
good and cheap edition, with a good notitia literaria.

Juvenal and Persius, cura Ruperti. Lipsiæ, 1801 or 1818, 2 vols. 8vo.
27 frs.

Lactantius is to be omitted, of course.

Libanius, as a sophist, not an orator, may be excluded.

Leonidæ (the two) should be taken only in the Anthology.

Livy, Recensuit Drachenborch, edidit Crevier. Oxford, 1822, 4 vols.
8vo. 1_l_. 18_s_.

Longinus. Toup's (Oxon, 1778, 8vo.) though not sufficiently correct in
the typography, is the _Editio opt._ It is, however, of a form
somewhat too large—royal 8vo. 8 to 10 frs.

Longus, _Daphnis et Chloe_. It should be taken in the Bipont Erotici
Græci; though this wants Courier's restoration of the chasm of eight
pages. The latter may be seen in one of the volumes of the Classical
Journal. There can scarcely be said to be any edition that contains
it: for Courier's (Rome, 1810, 8vo.) was printed for private
distribution only—52 copies. It has the Greek text alone. The complete
version (French) may be found in the works of Paul Louis Courier.

Lucan, _Pharsalia_. Take the Glasgow reprint of the Strawberry-hill
edition, cum notis Grotii et Bentleii, cura posteriore Cumberland,
8vo. 1816, 18 frs.

Lucian, _Opera_. Hemsterhuy's edition, with Gesner and Reiske's notes,
as reprinted at Deux-Ponts, 1789-91, 10 vols. 8vo. 80 to 100 francs,
is no doubt the completest. There is, however, the excellent and much
cheaper one of Schnieder. Halle, 1800, 2 vols. 8vo. 30 francs. It has
no interpretation, but offers esteemed notes, and some valuable
readings.

Lucilius. That of the Vulpii, Patavii, 1735, 8vo. is no doubt best. 4
to 6 francs.

Lucretius. Bentley and Wakefield's edition, in the Glasgow reprint of
1813, 4 vols. 8vo. 2_l_. It is beautifully printed by Bell, rivalling
the Foulis.

Lycophron may fairly be left to the lovers of the unintelligible.

Lycurgus. Take him in Reiske's Orators.

Lysias. Also in Reiske's Orators.

Macrobius, _Opera_, à Vulpiis fratribus. Patavii, 1736, 8vo. 6 to 9
frs. The edition of Gronovius is more commonly taken (Leyden, 1670,
8vo.) but is dearer—18 to 24 francs.

Manilius. His _Astronomicon_ may be omitted, as striving in vain to
make good poetry out of very bad astronomy.

Martial. The Bipont edition, 1784, 8vo. after the _variorum_ of
Schrevelius. The Amsterdam (1701, 8vo.) after the Delphin Editor
Collessus, is usually taken. But it is rather dear (about 20 francs);
and has, besides, a villainous collection of the _loci obscœni_ into a
sort of Cloaca, at the end. There are rare copies, in which the text
is in its place; but they sell very high—50 francs or more.

Maximus Tyrius. His Platonism is of very little use.

Meleager. I would take his Epigrams, &c. in the Anthology.

Menander. Of his Fragments, Meineke's edition, Berlin, 1823, 8vo. is
the best. The older one of Le Clerc—which gave occasion to that fierce
literary war between Bentley, Gronovius, Burmann, De Pauw and
others—is very defective; though hitherto usually employed.

Minucius Felix, as purely ecclesiastical, should be omitted.

Moschion. His _de Mulieribus_ we should, of course, exclude from any
but a medical collection.

Musæus. His _Hero and Leander_ is best edited by Schræder. Leovardiæ,
1742, 8vo. 10 to 12 frs. That of Magdeburg (by Carpzovius) 8vo. 1775,
is of some esteem. Its preface is curious.

The Mythographi Latini, collected by Muncker, (Amsterdam, 1681, 8vo.
12 to 18 frs.) consisting of Hyginus, Planciades Fulgentius,
Lactantius Placidus, and Albricus Philosophus, may be omitted.

Nemesianus. His _Cynegetica, &c._ are given in that volume of
Wernsdorf's Poetæ Lat. Minores, which contains the poems _de Venatione
et Piscatu_, [the 1st.]

Nemesius, _de Natura Hominis_, may be omitted.

Nicander. His _Alexipharmics and Theriacs_ may be banished, with no
great harm, among the medical writers.

Nicolaus Damascenus. The fragments of his _concinnated_ Universal
History should have a place in a historical, but scarcely in a
literary collection.

{681} Nonnus. His _Dionysiaca_ are not yet given in a good edition.
There are two unfinished editions probably yet in progress, that began
to appear at Heidelberg and Leipsig, in 1819. The first is by Moser,
as yet of only the 6 books from the 8th to the 13th. The other, by
Græfe, contains the first 24 books, 1 vol. the text alone.

Nonnius Marcellus is confined to grammatical subjects.

Julius Obsequens. His _de Prodigiis_ may be safely omitted.

Ocellus Lucanus. His Fragments are neither important, nor of a clear
authenticity.

Oppian, _de Venatione et Piscatu_. If purchased, the best edition is
that of Schnieder, Leipsig, 1813, 8vo. It should, however, when
bought, be given to some genius vast enough to embrace both the arts
of Industry and those of Indolence.

Oratores Græci, à Reiske. Lipsiæ, 1770, 8 vols. in 12, 8vo. It brings
220 francs, entire. The latter 6 volumes may sometimes be had
separate; and these, united with the London re-edition of Reiske's
Demosthenes [1822, 3 vols. 8vo.] and the Isocrates of Coray, give the
proper series of Orators.

Orphæus, _Argonautica, &c._ cum notis variorum, àb Hermanno. Lipsiæ,
1805, 8vo. 20 francs. It contains the discussion as to the age and
author of the Orphica; a dispute set on foot by Huet, whose opinion
Valcknaer, Schnieder and Hermann have since maintained; while the
genuineness of the Poems has been supported by Gesner, Ruhnken and
some others.

Ovid. Burmann's is no doubt the best edition; but is in 4to. and high
priced—8_l_. 8_s_. The best 8vo. edition, notis variorum, is that of
Cnipping, Leyden, 1670, 3 vols. 45 frs.

Palæphatus. His _Incredibilia_ are only proper for a mythographic
collection.

Palladius, _de Febribus_ may, of course, be omitted.

Rutilius Palladius, _de Re Rustica_, is in the collection Scriptores
rei rusticæ.

Panegyrici Veteres [latini] à Iaeger. Nuremberg, 1778, 2 vols. 8vo. 14
frs. The Delphine edition [by de la Baune] is also much esteemed; and
there is a London reprint, 1716, 8vo. That of Arntzenius, Utrecht,
1790-7, 2 vols. 4to. is the editio opt. 24 a 30 frs. The collection
embraces 12 panegyrics—1 of Plinius Cæcilius; 2 of Claudius
Mamertinus; 1 of another Claud Mam.; 5 of Eumenius; 1 of an unknown; 1
of Nazarius; 1 of Drœpanius.

Parthenius. Of his Erotic tales, Heyne's is the best edition.
Gottingen, 1798, 8vo. 3 frs.

Paterculus. Ruhnken's edition, Leyden, 1789, 2 vols. 8vo. 18 to 24
francs, is best.

Pausanias. That of Facius is much the best. Lipsiæ, 1794-7, 4 vols.
8vo. 36 frs.

Pœdo Albinovanus. His _Elegies_ are in Wernsdorf's Poetæ; as is
Severus's Ætna.

Persius. See Juvenal Ruperti.

Petronius, _Satyricon, &c._ à Hadrianide. Amsterdam, 1669, 8vo. with
the _Fragmentum Traguriense_ 1671. It should also include _Sulpitiæ
Satyra_, _Priapeia_, _Pervigilium Veneris_, _Statilii Apologia_, and
an Index of 4 leaves. The whole costs 15 to 20 frs. Burmann's 4to.
edition is the best. Amsterdam, 1743, 2 vols. 4to.

Phædrus, à Schwabio. Brunswick, 1806, 2 vols. 8vo. 16 francs,
engravings. It has a life—an excellent notitia literaria—a
dissertation on the age of Phædrus—another on the Fables of Gabriel
Faernus—34 Fables è MSto. Divionensi—a copious Index; and supplenda.
There are some castrated editions of Phædrus.

Phalaris, à Boyle. Oxon, 1718, 8vo. 7 frs. Though now regarded as
certainly spurious, the epistles are worth having, for the sake of the
literary controversy, and Bentley's masterly investigations on
Phalaris, Æsop, &c. London, 1817, 8vo.

Philo Judæus may be left among the mystic and ecclesiastic writers.

Philo Byzantinus is of little worth, even in a geographical
collection.

Philostratus. His _Life of Apollonius_, his _Heroica_, _Icones_, and
_Lives of the Sophists_ may be all omitted. There is no uniform
edition, except in folio. The 8vo. of Boissonade, Paris, 1806, is of
the Heroica only.

Phlegon Trallianus. His fragments are of no value.

Phocylides. The fragments attributed to him are too slight and too
uncertain to collected.

Photius. Of his Myriobiblon, there is no 8vo. edition.

Pindar, à Heyne. Göttingen, 1798-9, 3 vols. in 5, 8vo. 45 to 60
francs. It is the best. Its Leipsig copy of 1817, in 4 vols. 8vo. may
be taken equally well.

Plato. The Bipont edition, 1781-8, 12 vols. 8vo. is certainly to be
preferred. Besides its other auxiliaries, the discourse of Thiedman
(in the 12th vol.) on the Philosophy of Plato, is highly valuable. It
grows dearer every day; now worth probably 150 francs. Good editions
have since been published by Bekker and Ast—the former reprinted in
London, 11 vols. 8vo. 10_l_ It is well to mention the Translation into
French, which Cousin is now publishing, and of which some 7 or 8 vols.
have appeared.

Plautus, à Bothio. Berlin, 1804-11, 4 vols. 8vo.; the last occupied
with notes. It offers a much emended text, and a metrical
restoration—1_l_. 1_s_.

Plinius, _Historia Naturalis_, à Franzio. Lipsiæ, 1776-91, 10 vols.
8vo. This is the edition usually adopted for such a collection. It is,
however, too copious, and wants taste. It would, perhaps, be well to
abandon, in this instance, the 8vo. size, and take the beautiful and
esteemed edition of Brotier, printed by Barbou, Paris, 1779, 6 vols.
12mo. Its price is about 45, and that of Franzius about 60 francs. It
may be remarked, however, in regard to the latter, that its 10th vol.
is made up of some curious Dissertations. It possesses, too, in the
1st, 2d, and 3d, various other auxilliary pieces of value.

Plinius the Younger. His _Panegyricus Trajani_ is in the collection,
already indicated, of the Panegyrici Veteres Latini.

Plinius, Epistolæ, à Gierig. Lipsiæ, 1800, 2 vols. 8vo. 17 frs. The
edition of 1806, by the same Editor, is still better, and includes the
Panegyric. It is about the same price.

Plotinus, _de pulchritudine_, may be omitted, unless in forming a
philosophical collection. It is the only one of his works published in
an 8vo. form. Creusner, Heidelberg, 1814, 21 francs. It includes,
besides Wyttenbach's notes, Anecdota Græca; Procli disputatio de
unitate et pulchritudine; Nicephorus Nathaniel adversus Plotini de
Anima; Lectiones plotinicæ.

Plutarch, _Vitæ_, à Coray. Paris, 1809-15, 6 vols. 8vo. 108 frs. It is
the best edition of the Lives, Heeren's {682} dissertation “_de
fontibus et auctoritate Vitarum par. Plutarchi_,” Göttingen, 1820,
8vo. is an indispensable critical adjunct to the Lives.

Plutarch, _Moralia_, à Wyttenbach. Oxon, 1795-1810, 13 vols. 8vo.
5_l_. 5_s_. It is reputed the best edited book that ever came from the
classic press of Oxford—we might almost say, of England. It is the
chef d'œuvre of Wyttenbach; having occupied 30 years of his life.

Poetæ Latini Minores, à Wernsdorf. Altemberg, 1780-98, 6 in 10 vols.
8vo. 72 frs. Far the best collection; including, besides those of
Burmann's collection, many others: that is, it has Nemesianus and
others, de aucupio, Venatione et piscatu; Nemeseani Laudes Herculis;
Ausonii Mosella et de ostreis; the Idyllia et Bucolica of Calpurnius,
of Sidonius Syracusanus, of Serverus Sanctus, Bede, Septimius Serenus;
Ausonii Cupido Cruci affixus, Cassius Parmensis, &c. &c. These are the
contents of the two first volumes only. The third contains the lesser
Satyrists, with some Elegies and Lyrics: the fourth, Heroic Poems: the
fifth, Geographic ones: the sixth, Agricultural and rural, with some
amatory and convivial ones.

Poetæ Minores Græci, à Gaisford. Oxford, 1814, 4 vols. 8vo. 2_l_.
7_s_. It is much approved.

To these I would decidedly add the little collection of Pope, Selecta
Poemata Itatorum qui latiné scripserunt. London, 1740, 2 vols. small
8vo. It is far the most charming body of Modern Latin Poetry that
exists. Price, 10 to 12 francs. It embraces Eclogues, Odes, Elegies,
and a Sylva, from Sannazaro, the Amalthei, Vida, Fracastoro, Politian,
Jano Etrusco, the Strozzas, Ariosto, Sadolet, Buchanan, and others.

Polybius. Schweighæuser's, Leipsig, 1789-95, 7 in 9 vols. 8vo. is
undoubtedly the best edition of this most important historian. It
offers a very complete Apparatus to him. There are geographical and
historical Indexes, and a Lexicon Polybianum. The Notes are excellent;
the arrangements of the fragments, admirably luminous, according to
Gibbon, who commends the whole performance very highly. It is thought
least excellent, in the elucidation of the Achæan League. Price 120
francs. There is a Supplement, by Orellius, containing the Commentary
of Æneas Tacticus. Leipsig, 1818, 8vo. 8 francs.

Polyænus. His _Strategemata_ do not come within the plan of this
collection.

Pomponius Mela, Gronovii. Leyden, 1748, 2 vols. 8vo. 12 to 15 francs.
That of Tzschuckius, Leipsig, 1807, 7 vols. 8vo. is usually said to be
the best; but is entirely too bulky and too dear—108 frs.

Porphyrius. His _de Abstinentia ab esu animalium_ is the only one of
his works printed in 8vo. except his Life of Pythagoras. He is,
however, only fit to be passed over.

Proclus. His Platonic Commentaries, and his Astronomical works may all
be omitted.

Propertius, Barthii, Lipsiæ, 1777, 8vo. 7 francs. That of Kuinoel,
Leipsig, 1805, 2 vols. 8vo. 24 francs, were better, if it were
smaller. Of the best, which is unquestionably the elegant one of
Vulpius [Patavii, 1755, 2 vols. 4to.] there is no other impression. It
is also a dear book—48 to 60 frs.

Prudentius should be omitted. He is below the age of either Poetry or
Classical Latinity.

Psellus _de Lapidum Virtutibus_, _Synopsis Legum_, _de dæmone_, and
his mathematical works may all be safely omitted.

Quintus Calaber. His _Prætermissa ab Homero_ are of too low an age,
except for a collection intending to be absolutely complete.

Quintilian, à Spalding. Leipsig, 1798-1816, 4 vols. 8vo. and a 5th, in
1829, by Zumpt, containing supplemental notes and an Index: 55 a 60
francs, for the whole. It is much the best edition. It of course
excludes, as spurious, the _Declamationes_, and the _de Claris
Oratoribus_.

The Rei rusticæ Scriptores, I would exclude, except so far as embraced
in the body of the works of their chief authors.

Rhetores Selecti Græci, edente Gale, Oxon, 1676, 8vo. worth 10 to 15
francs, is a collection worth having. It embraces Demetrius Phalereus,
Tiberius, Anonymus Sophista, and Severus Alexander.

Of the Rhetores Latini, there is no 8vo. edition. There is a 4to.
edition by Capperonnier, Argentorati, 1756, 8 to 10 frs. It embraces
Rutilius Lupus, Aquila Romanus, Julius Rufianus, Curius Fortunatianus,
and others.

Gale's two other collections—his Historiæ Poeticæ Scriptores antiqui
[London, 1675, 8vo.] and his Opuscula Mythologica, Ethica et Physica
[Amsterdam, 1688, 8vo.] may be taken or omitted, according to one's
view. The latter [Gr. and Lat.] comprises Palephatus, Heraclitus,
Phornutus, Sallustius Philosophus, Ocellus, Lucanus, Timæus, Locrus,
Demophilus, Democratus, Secundus, Sextus Pythagoricus, Theophrastus,
Heliodorus Larissæus, &c.

Sextus Ruffus. His _Breviarium_ and _de Regionibus Urbis_, are of
little consequence.

Rutilius Numatianus. His _Itinerary_ is in Wernsdorf's Poetæ Lat.
Minores.

Rutilius Lupus, _de figuris Sententiarum et Elocutionis_, is proper
only to a Rhetorical collection. It has been edited by Rhunken, along
with Aquila Romanus and Julius Rufianus. Leyden, 1768, 8vo. 7 to 10
frs.

Sallust, à Krotscher, Lipsiæ, 1825, 8vo. Its price I cannot ascertain.
Gronovius's, Leyden, 1690, 8vo. is likewise good, but somewhat dear—18
francs. The 4to. edition of Havercamp, Amsterdam, 1742, is much
approved, but somewhat overloaded with Commentary. That of Wasse
[Cambridge, 1710, 4to.] is excellent, 10 to 15 frs.

Sappho. See below.

Scribonius Largus. His _Compositiones Medicæ_, [Pharmacy] are in very
bad Latin, besides being out of our range.

Scriptores Antiqui Parabilium Medicamentorum, ab Ackermanno, is
another collection of the same sort—to be, therefore, passed over.

Scriptores Erotici Græci. See Achilles Tatius &c.

Scriptores Physiognomoniæ Veteres, à Franzio, may also be omitted.

Secundus [Joannes.] His _Basia_ and _Epithilamia_ are elegant and pure
enough to enter into a collection of classic Latin poets. There is an
8vo. edition, Warrington, 1776. I do not know its present price.

Sedulius. His _Carmen Paschale_ has no merit but that of orthodoxy;
which, in poetry, is no great affair.

Sappho. The last edition [that of Vogler, Leipsig, 1810, 8vo. 6 frs.]
is said to be without criticism, though {683} surcharged with notes.
It is better, therefore, to take Wolff's 4to. one, Hamburg, 1733, 12
to 15 francs, joining to it his

Poetriarum [Græcarum] Octo fragmenta, Hamburg, 1734, 4to. 12 to 15
francs. It contains the remains of Erinna, Miro, Mirtis, Corinna,
Telesilla, Praxilla, Nossis and Anyta—the eight who, with Sappho, make
those usually known as the Greek Muses. There is a third collection of
Wolff, _Mulierum Græcarum quæ oratione prosa usæ sunt, fragmenta_.
Gottingen, 1739, 4to. 12 to 15 francs. It forms, with the two
preceding, an interesting series.

Seneca. The Elzevir edition [by Gronovius] Amsterdam, 1672, 3 vols.
8vo. is most esteemed, but is become too dear—60 to 80 frs. The later
one of Ruhkopf, Leipsig, 1797-1811, 8vo. 5 vols. 1_l_. 16_s_. is
regarded as very excellent.

Severus [Sulpitius.] His _Historia Sacra_ is of too low an age.

Silius Italicus, Ruperti, Gottingen, 1795, 2 vols. 8vo. is the best
edition, 18 frs. The Preface is by Heyne.

Sophocles. London, 1819, 3 vols. 8vo. 1_l_ 8_s_. It is a reimpression
of Brunck's, with the Scholia; Fragments; a Lexicon Sophocleum; an
Index; Excerpts from the Variæ lectiones of Erfurt's edition; some
inedited notes of Charles Burney; the Scholia of Demetrius Triclinius,
&c.

Statius. That of Veerhusen, Leyden, 1671, 8vo. has been the most
esteemed, but is very dear—30 frs. Lemaire published a very excellent
edition in Paris, 1825, 3 vols. 8vo. Its price I cannot ascertain, but
it is probably 12 francs per volume—the usual rate of his collection
of classics.

Stobæus, _Eclogæ ethicæ et physicæ_, à Heeren. Gottingen, 1792, 2 in 4
vols. 8vo. 30 francs.

Stobæus, _Florilegium_ by Gaisford, Oxford, 1822, 4 vols. 8vo. 2_l_.
8_s_.

Strabo. That of Siebenkees and Tzschucke [Leipsig, 1796-1818, 7 vols.
8vo. 108 francs] is usually preferred. Corey, however, published at
Paris, 1816-19, in 4 vols. 8vo. an excellent edition, with much
improved readings, and a very judicious commentary. It has no Latin
Version. 54 francs. This may be said to be part of that excellent
performance of Coray and du Theil, the French translation of Strabo;
of which the notes and dissertations offer such important
illustrations of the Geographer.

Strato. His _Epigrams_ are in the Greek Anthology. See Anthologia.

Suetonius, à Wolf. Lipsiæ, 1802, 4 vols. 8vo. 36 francs. It has the
notes of Casaubon and Ernesti; the _Ancyran Monument_, and the _Fasti
Prænestini_. There are also many notes of Ruhnken.

Synesius. His _Hymni_, _Epistolæ_, _de Insomniis_ and _de Febribus_
may all be passed over.

Tacitus. I should prefer the Commentary of Brotier to all others. The
original edition, [4to. Paris, 1771, 4 vols.] is scarce and dear.
Valpy has reprinted it very handsomely, London, 1812, 5 vols. 8vo.
2_l_. 18_s_. To Broitier's notes he has added a selection of others,
and the inedited annotations of Porson. There is a very excellent
edition, remarkable as a monument of feminine scholarship, by Mrs.
Grierson, Dublin, 1730, 3 vols. 8vo. 1_l_. 18_s_.

Tatian. His _Oratio ad Græcos_ might be passed over, were it not that,
in this Temperance Society age, it is well to commemorate the sole
surviving production of him who was the first to forbid the use of
wine in the Eucharist.

Terentianus Maurus may be passed by, or taken in some grammatical
collection.

Terence. Zeunius's is the best edition; accurate, but very ugly, in
the original impression. There is a very handsome, but less correct
London reprint, 1820, 2 vols. 8vo. retaining the Notes and Subsidiæ of
Z. It adds a selection from other annotators. 1_l_. 11_s_. 6_d_.

Tertullian, we may, of course, pass over.

Theocritus is given in Gaisford's Poetæ Minores Græci.

Theodorus Prodromus. His _Rhodanthe et Dosicles_ is regarded as one of
the poorest of the Greek romances.

Theodosius _de Sphera_, we will, of course, pass over.

Theognis. His _Sententiæ_, with those of the other Greek Gnomic poets,
should be taken in Brunck's collection—the new edition, Leipsig, 1817,
8vo. 10 frs.

Theophrastus. His _Characters_ alone come within our plan. Of these,
the best edition is that of Ast, Leipsig, 1816, 8vo.

Thucydides. The Bipont edition, 1788-9, 6 vols. 8vo. is most in
request. It is formed upon that of Wass and Dukker, with annotations
by the Bipont Society—75 francs. There are later editions, by Hackius
& Bekker, of which I can ascertain every thing except the critical
merit: the former, London, 1823, 3 vols. 8vo. 1_l_. 11_s_. 6_d_. the
latter, Oxford, 1821, 4 vols. 8vo. 2_l_. 12_s_. 6_d_.

Tiberius Rhetor. See Rhetores Selecti Græci, à Gale.

Tibullus. Heyne's edition, as revised by Wunderlich, Leipsig, 1816-17,
2 vols. 8vo. 25 francs, is the best.

Tryphiodorus. His _Ilii Excidium_ may be passed over.

Tyrtæus. His remains are found in the Anthology of Brunck.

Valerius Flaccus. The edition of Harles, Altenburg. 8vo. above 1300
pp. is accounted the best. It is founded on Burmann's. 20 frs.

Valerius Maximus. Kappius's, Lipsiæ, 1782, 8vo. 9 francs, is
unquestionably the best edition.

Varro. I would take the edition of Henry Stephens, Paris, 1573 or
1581, small 8vo. 9 to 15 francs. The Durdrecht edition, 1619, may have
some advantage over it: but I would take the other, merely as a
specimen of the Stephens press. It is also cheaper.

Verrius Flaccus, and his abreviator Pompeius Festus may be passed by,
unless in a grammatical collection. He is also the supposed author of
the Fasti Prænestini.

Vibius Sequester, _de fluminibus_, is of little importance.

Aurelius Victor. The edition of Pitiscus, Utrecht, 1696, 8vo. 12 a 18
francs, is the best for our purpose.

Virgil. Heyne's edition is esteemed, on all hands, the chef-d'œuvre of
all classical criticism. The Leipsig reprint of 1800, 6 vols. large
8vo. 130 francs, is the best. It is adorned with 204 very agreeable
vignettes, and is every way a beautiful book. Lemaire was to have
reproduced it, with additional notes, in his Bibliotheque des Auteurs
classiques latins. Four vols. had appeared some time ago. There is
also a very handsome reprint by Priestley, London, 1821, 4 vols. 8vo.
4_l_. 4_s_. As a {684} critical adjunct to Virgil, Uraini's Virgilius
Collatione Scriptorum Græcorum illustratus, may be taken. Leovardæ,
1747, 8vo. 8 to 10 frs.

Vitruvius. If he be taken, the edition of Schnieder, Leipsig, 1807-8,
3 vols. 8vo. 45 francs.

Xenocrates the Physician. His _de alimento ex aquatilibus_ may be
omitted.

Xenophon. Schnieder's edition of Leipsig, 1800, reprinted at Oxford,
1812, 6 vols. 8vo. is certainly the best.

Zosimus. Reittemeier's edition of his _Historiæ_, Leipsig, 1784, 8vo.
is reputed the best—10 frs.

E. W. J.

_S. C. College_.




TRIBUTARY STANZAS

_To a young officer of the United States Navy, lost at sea._

BY HENRY THOMPSON.


  I shed the warm tear still for thee,
  Friend of boyhood infancy;
  And memory delights to view
  The sunny haunts our childhood knew.
  Thy form in midnight's hallow'd sleep
  Comes back, its promis'd vow to keep;
  But ah! too soon the visions end
  That image thee! my boyhood friend.
  Long I've wept for thee in sorrow!
  Long I've vainly striv'd to borrow
  The thought that life doth still remain
  To bring thee back to me again.
  And years have fled away with me,
  Since thou wert shrouded in the sea;
  Since thou wert laid beneath the foam
  You lov'd to call your only home.
  And thou art now beneath its breast,
  In the deep coral grave of rest;
  And long the wave will kiss the shore
  That thou wilt visit—never more!
  But when from the deep, rocky bed
  The sea gives up its mighty dead,
  We'll meet where ocean cannot part
  The feeling and the faithful heart.
  Till then, sleep on in thy ocean grave,
  And long I'll love the murm'ring wave
  Because it comes from the distant sea,
  To whisper something still of thee!

_Alabama, Oct. 1836_.




RIGHT OF INSTRUCTION.

Hulc legi nec abrogari fas est, neque derogari ex hac aliquid licet,
neque tota abrogari potest: nec vero aut per senatum aut per populum
solui hac lege possumus: neque est quaerendus explanator aut interpres
eius alias; nec erit alia lex Romae, alia Athenis; alia nunc, alia
posthac; sed et omnes gentes (nostri Reipublicæ) et omni tempore una
lex et sempiterna et immutabilis continebit.
                                                  _De Republica_.

Si a jure decedus, vagus eris, et erunt omnia omnibus incerta.
                                                          _Coke_.

Rerum ordo confunditur si unicuique jurisdictio non servetur.
                                       _Id: Proem 4th Institute_.


A disposition to conclude my side of this subject in a single essay,
caused me to obtrude myself at an unreasonable length upon the readers
of the Messenger, in the last number. Nothing could have induced me to
trespass again, but the introduction of new matter by JUDGE HOPKINSON,
which requires consideration even more imperiously than his first
letter, both from its intrinsic importance, and the respect due to his
more deliberate investigation; and the belief that, though but the
ghost of a champion against an accomplished knight, my previous
occupancy may keep more worthy combatants from the field.

The Judge reiterates again and again his singular idea of the
_novelty_ of our doctrines. He says “politicians of a later date are
its authors. It was unknown to those who made the Constitution—as well
as to those writers and speakers who afterwards attacked and defended
it.” To support this idea, he refers freely to _the secret proceedings
and debates of the Convention_ by CHIEF JUSTICE YATES, and LUTHER
MARTIN'S communication to the Maryland Legislature.

After the long digression in his first article against the impropriety
of inferring opinions from the, comparatively, elaborate debates of
the State Conventions, it is a little surprising to find such vast
premises sustained only by scraps and fibres torn from MR. YATES'S
maimed and meagre skeleton of debates. But to answer we must follow
him.

No body of men ever encountered successfully greater difficulties than
the Federal Convention. Nothing but a stern conviction of the
necessity of doing _something_ prevented a dissolution without
effecting _anything_. Federalism and Nationalism, Democracy and
Aristocracy, Monarchy and Republicanism, and every combination, of
all, had to be reconciled in one uniform system. The fears entertained
by the small states of the large ones had to be allayed, and the fears
of all the ultra-state-rights-men, had to be satisfied of their safety
from the strangling grasp of the federal arm. At the same time the
party had to be satisfied which demanded more of their due weight for
the large states than they possessed under the confederation, and the
national government-men who demanded sufficient strength and
perfection in the form of the federal government to enable it to act
independently of state action, and even in spite of it. Our government
is a happy compromise of these conflicting interests. MR. MADISON was
in favor of a national government, perfect within its own sphere,
leaving the state governments only to manage their local concerns, but
with no power to interfere with the operations of the United States'
government. LUTHER MARTIN was in favor of equality and mere federation
of the states, and conducting the federal government by _states_, and
not its _independent_ action.

The principles of the first set of resolutions, appear to have met MR.
MADISON'S views, and were probably written by him, or with him, though
offered by GOVERNOR RANDOLPH, who “candidly confessed that they were
not intended for a _federal_ government,—he meant a strong
_consolidated_ union, in which the idea of states should be nearly
annihilated.”

This is the system of government to which the Judge refers us, as
containing the idea, in the fourth resolution, that senators ought “to
hold their offices for a term sufficient to insure their independence,
namely, seven years,” and that they ought to be “ineligible to state
or federal office _during their term of service_.” This resolution was
written with the avowed object of {685} keeping the state governments
from interfering in any way,—even by the allurements of office,—with
an officer who was designed to be an intrinsic part of an entirely
separate consolidated general government; and the _rejection_ of that
very system and the reasons assigned for it in the debates, prove,
beyond doubt, that the objection to it was because it left the states,
_as states_, and their governments and sovereignty, without
representation, and of course without protection. The Judge quotes a
_rejected_ clause, to prove the _adoption_ of its principles!

MR. MADISON was opposed to the amendment. He did not wish to leave the
state legislatures this modicum of federal power, because he wished a
distinct and _independent_ government. He must have foreseen the
exercise of instructions and recognized the right; or he could not
have used the expressions which fell from him when the right of
election was given to state legislatures. All who knew MR. MADISON, or
are at all familiar with his history, and his writings on the
formation of the constitution, must remember that he was haunted and
hag-ridden by a terror of disunion; and federal weakness, which, to
us, at the present day, would seem almost a monomania, if recent
startling events had not fearfully proven that this phantom is ever
armed and ready to assume a tangible shape, and realize, in practice,
those terrible consequences which his second-sighted sagacity could so
manifestly mark in the dim picture of the future. His fear of the
state legislatures led him to favor GOVERNOR RANDOLPH'S
proposition,—which was to have the senators selected by the house of
representatives, out of a certain number of persons nominated by the
state legislatures. This would have adroitly used the best possible
body for judicious nomination, without giving it the power of
appointment. Without representation, they would have been without the
right of instruction, and the election being made by the house of
representatives, the constitution of the senate would have had another
_national_ feature, and its members been removed as far as practicable
from state influence.

When the first and fatal blow was stricken at this system by giving
the election to the Legislatures, MR. MADISON'S hopes of a national
government, entirely distinct and independent of state governments,
were at once prostrated. Then he used the language quoted by Judge H.
“We are proceeding in the same manner that was done when the
confederation was first formed. Its original draft was excellent, but
in its progress to completion it became so insufficient as to give
rise to the present convention. By the vote already taken, will not
the temper of the state legislatures transfuse itself into the senate?
Do we create a free government?”

Our distinguished opponent asks what would he have said, had he known
that a right of instruction would be claimed? He could have said no
more—indeed he could not have used so much force without knowing it.
How else can the _temper_ transfuse itself? Is it only by an election
every _six years_, leaving the senators independent in the interval?
Would not the legislative _nominations_ have _transfused the temper_
quite as effectually? The legislatures would only have nominated those
who concurred in sentiment with a majority of their members; and all
that the house of representatives would have done would have been to
elect the most moderate, if they differed, and the most violent if
they agreed with the state legislature. The difference between the two
modes, as to the transfusion of temper, was almost nothing without
instructions, but very great with it; and as Mr. M. seemed to think
the amendment almost annihilated his scheme, we must suppose he
objected more to the incidental right of instruction given by the
vote, than the principal right of election from which it flowed.
Notwithstanding Mr. M.'s strenuous opposition, the change was made by
a vote of _nine states to two_—thus evincing a decided determination
in that body to enable the states to defend themselves, and _transfuse
their temper_ if necessary. Judge H. tortures Mr. M.'s objections to
the new system into an evidence of ignorance of one of the most
important consequences of that system, without a knowledge of which,
his reasons would have been of little force, and his fears utterly
without foundation.

The clauses which the Judge quotes in the fourth resolution, were left
in their original form by the advocates of state power, in the first
consideration in committee, being satisfied with their great gain in
the mode of election; but they were afterwards stricken out, being a
part of the scheme which had been rejected, and inconsistent with the
spirit of the amended resolution. The proposal and subsequent
rejection of the express terms of senatorial _independence_, prove
that the convention disapproved of the idea; but Judge H. quotes it as
evidence of “an intention to make the senators equally independent of
the several states and of the United States.”

The objections of LUTHER MARTIN to the _possibility_ of senators doing
their own will instead of that of their states, modern times have
proven to be too well founded, but his opinions upon that subject
being analogous to those of PATRICK HENRY, I refer to my last number
for the answer. He does not yield the right, but complains of the
power of senators to disobey, without being punished. He does not say,
as the Judge supposes, “that senators are _not_, precisely what the
advocates of instructions say they _are_,” but that they _may do_,
precisely what we say they _ought not_. He is directly opposed to MR.
MADISON, and fears the senators may stop that transfusion of temper,
which the latter thought they could not legitimately stop. MR. MARTIN
would not have objected to this system, if senators had been elected
for shorter terms, and paid by the states, and subject to recall,
because then he would have thought them sufficiently dependent on
their states. But none of these would have given the state any control
over them except by _instructions_.

MR. WILSON was with MR. MADISON and GOVERNOR RANDOLPH, opposed to the
election of Senators by state legislatures. Because he thought they
ought “_to lay aside their state connections and act for the general
good of the whole,_” and that the general government ought not “to be
comprised of an assemblage of different state governments.” Mr. W.
wished senators elected by _districts_. He wanted an _independent_
national government, and thought the laying aside state connections
incompatible with legislative elections, and that this mode would make
the general government an assemblage of different state governments.
He wished the senators to be by a DIFFERENT CONSTITUTION, precisely
what Judge H. contends they NOW ARE, and Mr. W. contended that they
could not be by our present {686} system. Yet he is quoted to prove
that under this constitution “the senators for each become the
senators of all,” and that “the senators from Virginia become as
independent of her as those of Massachusetts.” If Mr. W. thought so,
he was arguing against himself. Nothing but instructions could
possibly make the senate an assemblage of different state governments;
and the doctrine of the senators from each state loosing their
connection and becoming senators for all, made it the reverse, and a
senate as strictly national and independent as Mr. W. could wish. The
defeat of MR. WILSON proves that the convention did _not_ wish
senators to lay aside state connections, and _did_ wish the senate to
be an assemblage of state governments; and the reasoning of himself
and his party proves that they thought such would be the operation of
the present system if adopted. Thus we have the evidence of both
majority and minority—the whole convention—against the opinions of
JUDGE HOPKINSON, and his coadjutors of the present day.

MR. ELSWORTH wished the senate to have “_wisdom_ and _firmness_, as a
protection against the hasty and inconsiderate proceedings of the
_first branch_;” and yet he wished an election by the legislatures.
This speech was in opposition to MR. WILSON'S motion for the people to
elect by districts. If he had wished the wisdom and firmness as a
protection from the “wild and inconsiderate democracy of the state
legislatures,” as the modern doctrines contend, would he have
preferred that body as electors?

MR. MASON said, on the same proposition, “It is equally necessary to
preserve the state governments, as they ought to have the _means of
self defence_. On the motion of MR. WILSON _the only means they ought
to have would be destroyed_.” On the debate as to _equality_ of votes
in the senate, a similar contest arose, with a similar result. In that
debate JUDGE ELSWORTH remarks, “If the larger states seek security,
they have it fully in the first branch of the general government.
Small states must possess the power of _self-defence or be ruined_.
Will any one say there is _no diversity of interests in the states_?
And if there is, should not those interests be _guarded_ and
_secured_? But if there is none, then the large states have nothing to
_apprehend_ from an equality of rights.” This is all utterly
inconsistent with the idea of the “senator for one being the senator
for all,” so far as to set the interests and wishes of his own state
at defiance. The states-rights-men, and the small states obtained this
protection and security after an arduous and manly struggle—are they
to lose it by construction and recreancy of representatives? It may be
to the interest, perhaps, of the large states for a time, to establish
this doctrine, but it would speedily swallow all in the federal
Maelstrom. If, for instance, Pennsylvania should ever wish a national
bank, it might be agreeable to turn the voices of New Jersey, Delaware
and Rhode Island in opposition to the deliberate will of those states,
by persuading their senators that they were senators for the union and
not of those little states, and that the interest of Pennsylvania
ought to be considered before that of their diminutive states. But it
would be very unpleasant for her own senators to tell Pennsylvania, in
spite of instructions, we voted money for a steamboat canal from the
Ohio to Baltimore, because it would benefit all the western country,
and we are senators for all.

After the vote was carried in favor of the legislative elections,
GOVERNOR RANDOLPH moved to strike out the term of _seven years_, and
make the senators go out in classes, as that body might possibly
always sit, “perhaps, to aid the executive.” “The state governments
will always attempt to counteract the general government.” Requiring
that _body_, as a body, to act with _firmness_, does not imply the
duty of a senator to resist his own state. The arrangement of
_classes_ shows what is meant. That arrangement gave no facilities for
disobedience to instructions, and hence could not contribute to their
_firmness_ in that sense. But the arrangement in classes leaves the
senate always ready to act—“it might possibly always sit”—“to aid the
executive”—to act perhaps against a state which was attempting to
counteract the general government, and the term of whose senators had
expired, and which had refused to elect others. If all the senators
had gone out at the same time there would have been none to act.
GOVERNOR RANDOLPH had tried to make the _individual senators
independent of their states_. Failing in this, he now tried to make
the _body_ as firm and strongly permanent as he could, by not allowing
all to go out at the same time. If his object had been thus to defeat
the previous vote, and render the senators independent, his amendment
would have been rejected. A similar struggle was again raised upon the
question of paying the senators, the length of their term, and a power
of recall, but the friends of the states, and federative principles
yielded these minor points, believing themselves secure in the
elections and instructions and equality of votes in the senate. The
leaving the pay of senators to depend upon the states, was making the
federal _government_ too degradingly dependent upon the states. Not to
have power to pay its own officers, would have left it almost as
powerless as the old confederation, and it was thought, too, that it
would lead to federal corruption, and thus defeat its own object, by
making senators look exclusively to the federal government for honor
and emolument. This would have been an awkward and humiliating check
upon the body, without giving much control over its members. The
example of unpaid parliaments was quoted with effect. We learn, then,
from the debates, that the convention meant the states to act _as
states_ in the senate, in all respects as they had done under the
confederation, except that the senator had power to make a law instead
of a treaty, and his action was final without a subsequent
ratification by his state. They never meant to change, in any degree,
the state power of directing him.

The national-government-men contended that the states would have too
much power—the states-rights-men that they would have just enough for
protection—the ultra states-rights-men that they would not be
sufficiently protected, because there was no means of controlling a
wilful senator. Without the right of instruction their disputes amount
to nothing. The first class ought to have been satisfied, for they
lost nothing; the second class ought to have seceded as they
threatened, for they gained nothing; and the third class was guilty of
the folly of asking a remedy for the violation of a right which did
not exist. They were all mistaken—all wrong, and ignorant of what they
asked and what they accepted, and we of the present day can see their
errors! There is nothing new under the sun. The {687} question we now
discuss is the same under a new name which was discussed in the
convention. A question of _power_ between states and general
government and large and small states. What was lost in constituting
is to be regained by construction. What _states_ refused to give up,
is to be cozened out of their _agents_. In all the conventions
however, our misguided ancestors considered the senate as the last
remnant of the federative features of the old government, and that
senators represented distinct sovereignties, and were on the footing
of ambassadors or the members of the old congress as to their
constituents, and only legislators as to the general government.[1]

[Footnote 1: Of this, abundant evidence may be adduced. _Mr. Ames_, in
the Massachusetts convention, assigned the ambassadorial character of
senators as a reason for the length of their term.

“The senators represent the _sovereignty_ of the states; in the other
house individuals are represented. The senate may not originate bills.
It need not be said that they are principally to direct the affairs of
war and treaties. They are in the quality of _ambassadors_ of the
states, and it will not be denied that some permanency in their office
is necessary to a discharge of their duty. Now, if they were chosen
yearly, how could they perform their trust? If they would be brought
by that means more immediately under the influence of the people, then
they will represent the _state legislature_ less, and become the
representatives of individuals. This belongs to the other house. The
absurdity of this, and its repugnancy to the federal principles of the
constitution, will appear more fully, by supposing that they are to be
chosen by the people at large. If there is any force in the objection
to this article, this would be proper.

“But whom in that case would they represent? Not the legislatures of
the states, but the people. This would totally obliterate the federal
features of the constitution. What would become of the _state
governments_, and on whom would devolve the duty of defending them
against the encroachments of the federal government? A consolidation
of the states would ensue, which it is conceded would subvert the new
constitution, and against which this very article, so much condemned,
is our best security. Too much provision cannot be made against a
consolidation. The state governments represent the wishes and feelings
and local interests of the people. They are the safeguard and ornament
of the constitution—they will protract the period of our
liberties—they will afford a shelter against the abuse of power, and
will be the natural avengers of our violated rights.

“A very effectual check upon the power of the senate is provided. A
third part is to retire from office every two years. By this means,
while the senators are seated for six years they are admonished of
their _responsibility to the state legislatures_. If one third new
members are introduced, who feel the sentiments of their states, they
will awe that third whose term will be near expiring. This article
seems to be an excellence of the constitution, and affords just ground
to believe that it will be in practice, as in theory, a _federal_
republic.”

The remarks of Mr. King in the _same convention_, upon the same
subject, lead irresistibly to this conclusion, although it was
attempted to be reasoned away by Judge H. in his first letter—“The
senators,” said Mr. K. “will have a _powerful check_, in those men who
wish for their seats, who will _watch_ their whole conduct in the
general government, and will _give the alarm_ in case of misbehavior.”
(This is one distinct check and Mr. K. proceeds.) “And the _state
legislatures_, if they find _their delegates_ erring, can and will
_instruct them. Will not this be a check?_ When they hear the voice of
the people _solemnly dictating_ to them _their duty_, they will be
bold men indeed to act _contrary to it_.” (This makes obedience a
_duty_, and the boldness and hardihood not of that virtuous kind which
the Judge supposes.) “These will not be instructions sent them in a
private letter, which can be put in their pockets; they will be public
instructions, which all the country will see; and they will be hardy
men indeed to violate them.” (This seems to suppose meanness enough to
violate secret instructions, but not audacity enough to violate them
in the face of day.) “The honorable gentleman said, _the power to
control the senate is as great as ever was enjoyed in any government;_
and that the members thereof will be found _not to be chosen for too
long a time_. They are, says he, to assist the executive in the
designation and appointment of officers; and they ought to have time
to mature their judgment. If for a shorter period, how can they be
acquainted with the rights and interests of nations, so as to _form
advantageous treaties_?” If this is not our doctrine in full, we give
it up. Here is length of term advocated, not to strengthen in
disobedience, but to _mature judgment as to officers_, and _acquire
information as to treaties_; but as to legislative proceedings, “if
they are found erring, instruct them.” Instructions are given as the
remedy for a term _too long_ for _legislators_, but necessary to
enable them to execute properly their executive duties.

A similar view was taken by _Mr. Parsons_ of _Newburyport_, who
thought “suitable checks had been provided to prevent an abuse of
power, and to continue _their dependance on their constituents_.” _Mr.
Neal_ asks, “If we should ratify the constitution and _instruct_ our
first members to congress, &c. &c., is there not the highest
probability that every thing which we wish may be effectually
secured?” _Mr. Symmes_ finally withdrew his opposition, and would,
“especially as the amendments were to be a _standing instruction_ to
their _delegates_, until they were obtained, give it his unreserved
assent.”

So in the _New York convention, Mr. Hamilton_ says, “It will be the
interest of the large _states_ to increase the representation. This
will be the _standing instruction_ to their delegates.” He then argues
at length to prove that the will of the people must prevail over that
of the members of congress, and thus speaks: “If the general voice of
the people be for an increase, it undoubtedly must take place. They
have it in their power _to instruct their representatives_; and the
state legislatures, _which appoint the senators_, may _enjoin_ it also
upon them.”

In the same convention, _Mr. Jay_ says, “The senate is to be composed
of men appointed by the state legislatures: they will certainly choose
those who are most distinguished for their general knowledge; I
presume they will also _instruct them_; that there will be a _constant
correspondence_ supported between the senators and the _state
executive_, who will be able, from time to time, to afford them all
that particular information which particular circumstances may
require.” He seems to have considered senators in the light of
_ambassadors_, and never to have contemplated the contingency of a
state executive's refusing to send instructions to senators!

There was an attempt made in this convention to carry an amendment,
making senators ineligible for more than six years in a term of
twelve, and subjecting them to a power of recall, but it was
negatived—its opponents alleging that the _states_ had as much power
of _control_ as any constituents ought to have, or as the _people_ had
in the other house, and that to render senators ineligible a second
term would be highly impolitic—excluding useful and experienced
citizens from office.

In the convention of _North Carolina, Mr. Davie_, in giving the
reasons for the introduction of a vice president, says: “It was owing
with other reasons, to the _jealousy_ of the _states_, and
particularly to the extreme jealousy of the _lesser states_, of the
power and influence of the larger members of the confederacy. It was
in the senate that the several political interests of the _states_
were to be preserved, and where all their powers were to be perfectly
balanced.” Hence, he concludes, the _casting vote_ ought to be in the
hands of a man, possessing the confidence of all the states in a great
degree, and responsible to no particular one.

In the _convention of Pennsylvania, Mr. Wilson_, in answer to the
fears of some as to the _independence of senators_, says: “In the
system before you, the senators, sir, those _tyrants that are to_
devour the legislatures of the states, are to be _chosen by the state
legislatures themselves. Need any thing more be said on this subject?_
So far is the principle of each _state's retaining_ the power of
self-preservation, from being weakened or endangered by the general
government, that the convention went further, perhaps, than was
strictly proper, in order to secure it; for in this second branch of
the legislature, _each state_, without regard to its importance, is
entitled to an _equal vote_.” Further on, he says: “The truth is, and
it is a leading principle in this system, _that not the states only_,
but _the people_ also shall be here represented.” Again: “_States_ now
exist and others will come into existence; it was thought proper that
they should be _represented_ in the general government.”

Such were the opinions of those who “assisted in framing the
government;” but the idea now is, that senators _represent_ and
protect, not their own states, but the whole union, even in opposition
to the interest or safety, and expressed wishes of their states.]

One remark of Judge H. will finish our consideration of this portion
of his letter. “This (right of instruction) {688} is practically to
give the legislatures a power to recall their senators, as
instructions may always be given, which _must be disobeyed by an
honest man_.” Such could not be given by an _honest man_. This
supposes a _majority_ of each legislature always dishonest, and ready
to pass dishonest instructions, not to effect legislation, but merely
to eject an _honest_ senator. What could induce this? only _one_ could
take the place, and the rest must be prostrated, unless the people too
be dishonest. A new election would place honest men in power, _they_
would give honest instructions to the dishonest senator, and by our
rule he must obey and honest measures prevail, or give place to an
honest man. So that the rule is likely to work as much good as harm in
any contingency, unless honest men are necessarily corrupt state
legislators, or a dishonest man an honest senator, or the _people_
thoroughly corrupt. If the latter is true, unless we could find an
honest king, we must be content with a corrupt government.

In his former letter the Judge complained that there was no mention of
this right in the constitution,[2] and now declares that “not a
syllable can be found any where from any body which hints at this
right.” I trust this popular periodical now bears many syllables from
high authority having an “awful squinting” that way, and visible to
the naked eye. But there is still higher evidence, not only of the
knowledge of this right by our ancestors, but of the high value and
sanctity of it in their estimation. It was incorporated into the first
Virginia bill of rights, thence copied _verbatim_ by the Virginia
convention on the federal constitution, in a bill of rights which that
body proposed to attach to the federal constitution, and copied again
_verbatim_ in the recommendations of amendments by the _North
Carolina_ convention on the constitution.[3]

[Footnote 2: _Mr. Bowdoin_. “The whole constitution is a declaration
of rights. The rights of _particular states_ and private citizens not
being the object or subject of the constitution, they are only
incidentally mentioned. In regard to the _former_, it would require _a
volume_ to describe them, as they extend to every subject of
legislation not included in the powers vested in congress.”—_Debates
Massachusetts Convention_.]

[Footnote 3: See fifteenth article of Virginia bill of rights, _passed
unanimously_ in the Virginia convention, _June 12th, 1776_, in these
words. “XV. That _the people_ have a right peaceably to assemble
together, to consult for the common good, _or to instruct their
representatives_; and that _every freeman_ has a right to _petition_,
or _apply_ to the legislature for redress of grievances.”

In Virginia convention on the federal constitution, Friday, 27th June,
1788, _Mr. Wythe_, from the committee on amendments, reported the
Virginia bill of rights, with this preamble, “That there be a bill of
rights asserting and securing from encroachment the essential and
unalienable rights of the people, in some such manner as the
following.” (Here follows the bill, including the fifteenth article.)
The same clause, with others, was carried in the North Carolina
convention, by a vote of 184 to 84, the minority objecting to other
clauses. This proves that the right was _known_ and _valued_, as a
_natural_ and _unalienable_ right of the people, and of course the
states when constituents, and considered a _different thing_ from
_consultation_, _petition_, _advice_ or _remonstrance_. _Every
freeman_ may _petition_ or _remonstrate_, but the _people_ must
_instruct._]

JUDGE HOPKINSON “has not referred to the opinions of MR. BURKE,
because the argument stands here on a different and stronger ground.”
Yes, stronger—on our side. _First_, because states are represented _as
such_, in their _sovereign capacity_; and apart from general
representative principles, their ambassadorial character requires
obedience. _Secondly_, because small districts elect for vast regions
in England, and here power is equally distributed, for the avowed
purpose of equal representation and protection. And _thirdly_, because
in England a member of the House of Commons has no constitutional
right of _resignation_; it is prohibited; and by our rule, he must
there obey in _all cases_.

As to the _first_, even Blackstone admits that members of Parliament
ought to obey if they represented separate communities, and did not
serve for the whole realm. He says, “every member is chosen for the
whole, and hence is not bound, like a deputy in the United Provinces,
to consult his particular constituents.” But here they are elected for
_states_, by analogy to the old congress and the diet of the United
Provinces.[4] MR. HAMILTON says in the Federalist, (No. 9,) “The
proposed constitution, so far from implying an abolition of the state
governments, makes _them constituent parts of the national
sovereignty, by allowing them a direct representation in the Senate_,
and leaves to their possession certain exclusive and very important
portions of sovereign power.” MR. MADISON says, in No. 45, “The _state
governments_ may be regarded as _constituent_ and essential parts of
the federal government.” MR. LANSING, who had been a member of the
federal convention, said in the New York convention, “I believe it was
undoubtedly _the intention of the framers of this constitution_ to
make the lower house the proper, peculiar representative of the
interests of the people—the senate of the _sovereignty of the
states_.” For this reason he wished a power of recall to make them
more dependent upon their states, “of whose independence it was
_designed by the plan_ that they should be the bulwark, and check to
the encroachments of the general government.” MR. SMITH, in the same
convention, was also very apprehensive of senatorial disobedience, and
advocated Mr. Lansing's amendment. He says, “with respect to the
second part of the amendment, I would observe, that as the senators
are the _representatives of the state legislatures_, it is reasonable
and proper that they should be _under their control_. When _a state
sends an agent_ commissioned to transact _any business_, or perform
_any service_, it certainly ought to have a power to recall him.” I
presume this authority, with that in a previous note, will
sufficiently establish this point.

[Footnote 4: “In Switzerland and _Holland_ the different parties
(states) send deputies, commissioned and _instructed_ by themselves,
who debate, but have no other power than what is conferred only by the
people, or may be subsequently given.” (_Harrington_, _Oceana_, 51.)
This bears a close resemblance to the powers of the old congress.]

II. As to the second reason, it received sufficient consideration in
my former number.[5]

[Footnote 5: _Judge Hopkinson_ is against _all instructions_, but
thinks his reasoning stronger in the case of senators, because the
right is not reserved. I am for _all instructions_, and especially
those to senators, because of their character as ambassadors,
representing sovereignty, and because it is a reserved state right,
secured by our international compact, in which all is reserved which
is not _given_, and in which a representation of sovereignties, as
such, was insisted upon and yielded. But even as to popular
instructions, the case is much stronger here than in England, for
reasons intimated in my last. Lee us see how it has stood there, long
before the reform bill, and long before the American {689} revolution
brought up all the questions of representation and taxation for
discussion and decision. In the most ancient times, when the
connection between vassal and lord was very close, and the vassal had
little to which the lord could not lay claim, the commons were
considered as represented in the commune concilium, by the lords and
great barons under whom they held; but the king's tenants _in capite_,
holding _immediately_ from the crown, could not be considered, by the
most liberal construction, as thus represented, and they were
therefore admitted into parliament, in propria persona, in their own
right. When these became too numerous thus to be admitted, they of
their own accord, to avoid inconvenience, appeared by _proxy_. As the
towns, cities, and boroughs began to receive incorporations, to grow
in importance and wealth, especially personal property, an aliquot
part of which was always granted, they too being unrepresented by the
lords, were required to send _proxies_; and it was subsequently
extended to knights for the shires, as the feudal fetters wore away.
These _proxies_ had no power but that conferred by their constituents.
(See Pettyt's Antient Right of the Commons of England, p. 14; 1
Gordon's History of Parliament, 215)—(Lex Parliamentaria, 113 and
117.) “And Note, If any new project was proposed in Parliament for
raising subsidies or supplies, the commons usually replied thereto
that they were not _instructed_ by their principals in that matter, or
that they durst not consent to such tax, &c. without conference with
their countries.” “And Note, Blackstone (Book I, 168) says, a member
of the house of commons cannot vote by proxy, because ‘he is himself
but a _proxy_ of a multitude of other people.’” Representation in the
Parliament of _Scotland_ went through a similar process. (See Lord
Somers' Tracts, vol. 12, p. 610.) In the seventh parliament of the
reign of James the First of Scotland, (1427) “the small barons were
allowed to send commissioners, and were charged with the fees of their
deputies,” and this was the first instance of _elective_ members to
the Scottish parliament.

In Burgh's Political Disquisitions, (London, 1774) the American
doctrine in its most rigorous extent is found applied in full vigor to
members of parliament, and sustained by an abundant series of
precedents from the earliest times, and quotations of the strongest
language from members of Parliament in sustaining the duty of
obedience, and the advice and opinions of the best English authors, to
the same purport. (See vol. I, from p. 180 to 205—many instances of
instruction and obedience against the sentiments of the
representative, a few of which are in _Mr. Leigh's_ report of 1812.)

In the _Irish_ parliament, which met in November 1767, there was
scarcely a town or county which had not instructed its representative
to vote in favor of a limitation of their parliaments to seven years;
and so eager were they, that all required the most positive
assurances, and some even exacted an _oath_ from their members to vote
for the bill. The bill was passed, and its subsequent history affords
a curious instance of legislative cunning and popular firmness. (See
London Magazine, 1768, p. 131.)

In the session of 1733-4, (An. 7, Geo. II) _Sir William Wyndham_, in
the house of commons, in a speech on _Mr. Bromley's_ motion for
repealing the septennial act, said of an opinion of _Mr. Willes_,
(afterwards chief justice) of a character very similar to that
advanced by _Judge Hopkinson_, (to wit: “After we are chosen, and have
taken our seats in this house, we have no longer any dependance upon
our electors, at least so far as regards our behavior here; their
whole power is then devolved upon us, and we are in every question to
regard only the public good in general, and to determine according to
our own judgment. If we do not—if we are to depend upon our
representatives, and to follow blindly the _instructions_ they send
us, we cannot be said to act freely, nor can such parliaments be
called free parliaments. Such a dependance would be more dangerous
than a dependance upon the crown”)—that it was “not only a _new_
doctrine, but it was the _most monstrous_, the _most slavish_ doctrine
that ever was heard, and such a doctrine as he hoped no man would
_ever dare_ to support within those walls. He was persuaded that the
learned gentleman _did not mean_ what the words he happened to use
seemed to import—for though the people of a county, city or borough
may be misled, and may be induced to give instructions which are
contrary to the true interest of their country, yet he hoped he would
allow that in times past the crown has oftener been misled; and we
must conclude that it was more apt to be misled in future, than we can
suppose the people to be.” (See Com. Debates VIII, pp. 172, 188. The
whole debate might be read with advantage by many modern
_republicans_.) Here, whatever right the crown had to control
parliament, is vested in the legislatures as to senators, and the
people as to legislatures, as they are sovereigns; hence, whether whig
or tory rule prevails, we ought to have the right of instruction.

The immortal _Sidney_, in his discourses on government, goes to the
full extent of our present doctrines. “Many in all ages, and sometimes
the whole body of the commons, have refused to give their opinion in
some cases till they had consulted with those that sent them; the
houses have been often adjourned to give them time to do it; and if
this were done more frequently, or that the towns, cities and counties
had on some occasions given _instructions_ to their deputies, matters
would probably have _gone better_ in parliament than they have often
done.” He seems satisfied with subsequent rejection as sufficient
punishment for violation of duty, but does not hence infer that there
are no duties. “Whensoever any of them has the misfortune not to
satisfy the major part of _those that chose him_, he is sure to be
rejected _with disgrace_ the next time he shall desire to be chosen.
This is not only a sufficient punishment of such faults, as he who is
one of five hundred may probably commit, but as much as the greatest
and freest people of the world did ever inflict upon their commanders
that brought the greatest losses upon them.” (Discourses on
Government, section 38.) This rejection from office is the only
punishment provided by our constitution in cases of impeachment of the
highest officers.

Quotations might be multiplied, but “this little taste shall suffice.”
It must be remembered that these doctrines prevailed under a
constitution which allowed of no resignation, and where fifty-six
members (or about a ninth part of the English representation) were
elected by only three hundred and sixty-four votes—where _one man_
sent a representative from _Sarum_, and one from _Newton_, and _two_
sent one from _Marlborough_—and the elective franchise was so
unequally and unjustly distributed, that parliament never truly
represented the wealth, population, or wishes of all England, or any
section, or even a single election district, or any class of persons
or property, unless the representatives of the single freeholders of
Newton and Sarum constituted an exception! When our “_novel doctrine_,
conjured up for party purposes,” has prevailed there _time out of
mind_, who shall deny its propriety here? Lords have proxies, and may
instruct them, though the absent principals may be gambling in
Brussels, or revelling in Parisian debauchery, and neither hear or
read the debates; shall that be denied to the majesty of the people
which is yielded to the dignity of a half fledged lordling, sunk in
vices which disgrace the human character?]

III. If any thing could render a relaxation of our rule tolerable in
England, it would be that feature of their constitution which will not
permit resignation. As that constitution “will not intend a wrong,” it
must suppose constituents utterly incapable of giving instructions
“which no honest man can obey”—and it must hold a member entirely
irresponsible, morally and legally, for a vote in obedience to them.
Such is the fact, and this arrangement prevents that possibility of
the defeat of their wishes by resignation, which the judge so much
deprecates, and which he sets up as a reason or excuse for wilful
disobedience. This absence of a constitutional privilege of
resignation renders members, when once elected, indebted entirely to
the courtesy of the crown for their escape from their seats when
disagreeable. Another feature of their constitution makes the
acceptance of office under the crown, (except a few offices of state)
_ipso facto_ vacate a seat in parliament. Hence we often hear of
gentlemen's accepting the Chiltern Hundreds.[6]

[Footnote 6: “A member when duly elected, is not only compelled to
serve in parliament, but he cannot at any future period either resign
his seat or be expelled from the house except by some legal
disqualification. In order, therefore, to meet the views of those
members who may wish to resign their seats, it has been the practice,
ever since the year 1750, for such members to accept {690} the office
of steward of the Chiltern Hundreds, which being an appointment under
the crown, their seats are of necessity vacated. The office, however,
is a merely nominal one. The stewards who accept it desire neither
honor nor emolument from it, the only salary attached to the
appointment being twenty shillings a year. The Chiltern Hundreds are
districts in Buckinghamshire belonging to the crown. The appointment
to the office of the steward of these Hundreds is vested in the
Chancellor of the Exchequer, who, as a matter of course, grants it to
every member who applies for it.”—_Random Recollections of the House
of Commons_.

“On the 2d of March, 1623, (!) it is agreed, That a man, after he is
duly chosen, cannot relinquish.”

See this and other precedents, and the reasons for the principle on
which this part of the parliamentary constitution stands, collected in
“Volume II of Hatsell's Proceedings and Precedents in the House of
Commons.” The rule is firmly established, but thus easily evaded when
inconvenient.]

In England no one seems to have objected to this right, that it cannot
be enforced, or disobedient delegates punished, although there,
delegates may alter or refuse to alter the constitution itself, in
despite of their constituents—still less is the want of power to
recall, or the length of term urged against it. If this last was a
sound reason, then it would follow that members of the old parliaments
were bound to obey, but not those elected since the septennial act!
That is, the stronger the reason for the right the weaker it becomes,
which militates against every principle of British law.

The sublime and eloquent BURKE appeared before the electors of Bristol
in all the proud consciousness of lofty virtue and commanding
intellect. But strip his arguments of the gilded cloud of drapery
flung around them by the magic of his fancy, and his sophistry, naked,
unadorned, loses half its force by losing all its beauty.[7] The most
powerful and legitimate argument he uses, applies only to the
expediency of disobedience in that particular case, and if his facts
were correct, ought to have excused him, if such an offence can ever
be excused. “Was I not to foresee, or foreseeing, was I not to
endeavor to save you from all these multiplied mischiefs and
disgraces.” He then artfully asks, if the “little, silly canvass
prattle of obedience to instructions would save them from the ‘pelting
of the pitiless storm.’” Thus presenting them only the awful
_alternatives_ of _destruction_ or disobedience, and appealing to
subsequent _developements_ to prove that disobedience was their
preservation. By placing it in this position, he ventures to ridicule
instructions. His next best argument also applied only to special
cases. He appeals to “near two years tranquillity” to prove that “the
late horrible spirit was in a great measure the effect of insidious
art, and perverse industry, and gross misrepresentation.” In a word,
any thing but the deliberate sense of the people. From this it seems
the people ought not to be tranquil under insult, or their deliberate
will may be mistaken for a “fashionable gale.” After thus fortifying
himself by all the strength which his ingenuity and eloquence could
give to his own peculiar position, he ventures to fire his gilded shot
at the sacred citadel. He contends that if the “dislike had been much
more deliberate, and much more general than it was,” he ought not to
make the “opinions of the greatest multitudes the masters of his
conscience,” unless they “were the standard of rectitude,” which was
not expected of him. All they asked was, in a question of expediency,
that he would substitute their judgment for his own. He doubts if
“Omnipotence itself can alter the essential constitution of right and
wrong,” much less such _things_ as his constituents and himself. This
was pretty gilding for their chains merely. They never attempted to
alter the constitution of right and wrong, but to judge the one from
the other; and the question was not between them and Omnipotence, but
the electors of Bristol and the “sublime and beautiful” BURKE.

[Footnote 7: “And vice itself loses half its evil by losing all its
grossness.”—[Reflections on the French Revolution.]]

He next contends that the delegate owes his _judgment_ as well as his
exertions to his constituents—which is true—and the debt is paid when
they ask to set aside his judgment for theirs. He admits the delegate
should sacrifice his _will_ to his constituents, but that government
is a matter of judgment and of reason—not of inclination; and asks,
“What sort of reason is that in which the determination precedes the
discussion—one set of men deliberate, and another decide—and where
those who form the conclusion are perhaps three hundred miles distant
from those who hear the arguments?” I might ask what sort of a will is
this conceded, which is never to prevail? Can there be no reason or
judgment—no discussion—no deliberation—no arguments out of parliament?
Can the people neither talk, or think, or read? This argument wholly
falls, when the instructions are given, after both popular and
parliamentary discussion has spread all the light upon the subject
through the country.

Now what remains of MR. BURKE'S great defence of disobedience? His
arguments all go to expediency in particular cases, and not the
_right_, when stript of the difficulties he throws around its
exercise. Take him from his position, and strip him of his gorgeous
and dazzling armor, and he must stand a pigmy confessed before all, as
he was before the electors of BRISTOL.

JUDGE HOPKINSON finds fault with MR. TYLER for resignation. “He had
sworn to support and defend the constitution against _wrong from any
quarter_,” and he violated his duty and his oath, it seems, by
resigning. “Where is the difference,” he indignantly exclaims,
“between the sentinel who turns his own arms upon the citadel he was
bound to defend, and one who gives up his trust to the _enemy_, that
he may do the work of ruin which the conscience of the latter
forbids.” The difference is rather between the sentinel who, being
ordered to shoot a traitor brother from the battlements, turns and
kills his commander—and one who, with the same orders, retires with
leave from the service, and suffers another to do what affection for a
brother, or perhaps participation in his designs, will not permit him
to accomplish.

This new theory makes every resigning senator responsible for _all_
(or none) of the unconstitutional acts of his successor. MR. TYLER
must bear MR. RIVES' expunging sins, to avoid which he resigned; MR.
LEIGH must suffer if his successor establishes a bank or other form of
monarchy; MR. TAZEWELL is responsible for MR. RIVES' vote on the force
bill, and MR. RIVES for MR. LEIGH'S vote censuring the President, to
escape which he resigned. Political parties have been censuring the
wrong men. This new light, like an ignis fatuus, will lead them into a
direction opposite to the one they wish to pursue. The incumbent is
never {691} responsible when his predecessor has resigned. Resignation
in a senator is at all times as criminal as desertion of his post by a
sentinel, and when he is succeeded by a senator of different opinions
(which he cannot prevent) it is equivalent to treason. To what a
labyrinth of error are we led, by forcing reason to follow a foregone
conclusion?

Let us examine it. Because senators are sworn to protect and defend
the constitution, if they quit their posts and thus make room for
another who may, or certainly will violate it, they themselves violate
their oaths, their duty and the constitution. These are Judge H.'s
premises. But Mr. Tyler's resignation was of such a character,
therefore he violated the constitution. But any senator who will ever
violate that instrument is not a fit guardian for it, and ought
instantly to resign. Mr. Tyler did so, therefore he ought to have
resigned. Then his resignation was right because it was wrong!

Again. Mr. T. violated the constitution by resigning—not by the act
itself, but by enabling Mr. Rives to do it; but the guilt could only
be incurred by one person, by one vote, and as Mr. T. had clearly
incurred the guilt by a previous act, Mr. R. was innocent. But if Mr.
R. did not violate the constitution, and Mr. T.'s guilt depended upon
that, he too is innocent, and _there was no violation because there
was no violation!_ But any reasoning which makes a man both right and
wrong, or the constitution not violated because it is violated, must
be intelligible and acceptable to those who make two persons who come
to “opposite conclusions upon the same case” both right, and only
infer from the difference that some one else is wrong!

Who shall be impeached—who punished under this new doctrine?
Resignation is not unconstitutional, but is made criminal by an ex
post facto act. As the subsequent acts could not be committed without
the resignation, all the guilt attaches to the resigning member.
Neither MR. RIVES or MR. LEIGH can thus commit any sin in propria
persona. MR. TYLER sins in MR. RIVES, and MR. RIVES is responsible,
not for his own acts, but those of MR. LEIGH. This is a roundabout
responsibility with a vengeance, which makes no one responsible until
he resigns, and is beyond the reach of impeachment.

But upon the Judge's own grounds, what better argument could be
offered against senatorial infallibility, than this violation of the
constitution by Mr. Tazewell, Mr. R. and Mr. T. and the promise to
violate it by MR. LEIGH? Four successive _guardians_ of the state have
betrayed their trust. They have deserted their posts, and left the
constitution at the mercy of the legislatures, as “a rag floating upon
the winds.” What can the legislatures do when thus left unchecked,
unguarded, and the constitution a prey “to wild democracy?” The high
criminality of the senators is enhanced by the fact that he is
instructed by “a majority of six or eight out of one or two hundred,
and he knows a large proportion of the majority to be men of little
knowledge, of strong passions and prejudices, with a servile adherence
to party purposes—men whom he would not regard in any concern of his
own of the value of a dollar,” and in the minority he knows all to be
eminent statesmen. Of what a stupendous violation of duty are these
men guilty? They leave the state and the statesmen a prey to these
vile demagogues in a new election, which the stupid constitution has
put it into their power to make, without the guardian care and saving
disobedience of some kind senator to protect us from their rashness.
The more the Judge exaggerates the crime, the less worthy he makes the
guardian; the more frequent the offence, the less infallible the
senatorial wisdom and virtue. If senators commit these high crimes,
they ought to be controlled by the ordinary guardians of the state—the
legislature. We have now had this crime committed by a senator of each
party in each manner, and promised by a third. Mr. R. resigned when
first instructed by this wicked majority, and Messrs. Tyler and Leigh
_obeyed_. The second time MR. TYLER resigned, and MR. LEIGH promised
to resign, and MR. RIVES obeyed. When senators thus differ, what has
become of the firmness and guardian care and infallibility which was
to protect us? Which shall we follow? One or other of the two has in
every instance, by this theory, violated the constitution. How shall
we act? They are right and we are wrong, but how can we avail
ourselves of the superior wisdom they have developed? What
complexity—what difficulty—what a mass of error and confusion in the
legislatures—what a waste of inexplicable and incongruous wisdom on
the part of senators! Oh that our short-sighted ancestors had so
ordered it that the guardian should instruct the ward, instead of the
reverse!

This doctrine of non-resignation for fear a successor should violate
the constitution, assumes that immediately after a senatorial
election, a majority of each legislature becomes and must continue
knaves or fools. It operates with much more force against a new
election than instructions. It proves that senators ought to hold
office for life; that all legislatures after the first have been
incompetent, and all to come will be incompetent, from want of honesty
and discretion to elect senators. But as it is admitted by all to be
the best body for that purpose, and was selected as such by the
convention, it follows that no body, since the first senate perhaps,
ever has been or can be competent to elect senators. The state
legislatures can only be incompetent because the _people_ want honesty
or capacity enough to elect men capable of electing senators. _A
fortiori_ are they not sufficiently honest or capable to elect
presidential electors, or the house of representatives, which are even
more important. The government must lapse into anarchy because there
is not sufficient honesty or capacity in it to govern it. And it must
continue so, because an ignorant and corrupt people without a
government cannot better their condition. Nor can any form of
hereditary government be established, because it is absurd to say that
_chance_ is a better guide than the simplest reason; and where the
wisdom of all combined is not sufficient, it is absurd to look for
greater wisdom in a _few_ or in _one_. Thus it seems to me that a
denial of the right of instruction is not only inconsistent with a
representative government, but the reasons on which it is founded are
inconsistent with any government.

MR. TYLER admits our principle and says he would obey, but for
constitutional scruples, but having these he resigns. This seems a
simple, intelligible, respectful course; but Judge H. “whose political
metaphysics surpass my understanding,” loses himself in a labyrinth of
doubt and obscurity. He says in effect “I will do as I please,” makes
the matter simple enough. All {692} despotisms are simple, and simple
people submit to them. “Obey or resign” is not too complicated to be
understood by men as enlightened as senators ought to be, and seems
more suitable language between masters and servants. He creates a new
difficulty by making senators not enlightened, but simpletons, groping
in the dark in each case, to know whether they must obey _or_ resign.
All such should resign at once, for Judge H.'s theory is based only
upon exalted wisdom, and cannot save him, if he is a “simple
novitiate” seeking a _rule_ to guide him in a plain duty. He would be
a “simple novitiate” indeed who would inquire “what legislature he
should obey.” Common sense would seem to say the question only arises
upon the instructions actually before him in all cases, and he could
not obey a legislature which did not instruct, or instructed last
year, or forty years ago, or may instruct forty years or a month
hence. I cannot see where the Judge finds authority for his “playing
for the rubber, or taking his chance for a third heat,” (as he
facetiously remarks, “_especially in Virginia_,”) unless the senator
has second sight, and then the argument proves that he ought to obey,
not only promptly, but _a year in advance_. But it is better to _count
out with honors_ and gain _his points_, than run the risque of losing
by this _odd trick_.

The strangest perversion runs through these comments upon Mr. Tyler's
course. The firmness before required is forgotten. The senator must
disobey if he finds great men against his constituents—the opinion of
a JAMES MADISON, or even a disappointed minority of his own
constituents, if _in his opinion_, possessed of more intellect than
the majority, may be obeyed in preference. A majority of constituents
seems to be the only body, to be utterly disregarded.

But the leaning on authority is not yet sufficient; we are to be
defeated not only by _concurrence_, but _difference of opinion_, as
the following paragraph proves:

“I cannot refrain from remarking that these gentlemen, (Messrs. Tyler
and Leigh,) both professing to maintain the true and orthodox
doctrines of ‘Instruction,’ and exerting their powerful and cultivated
intellects to explain them through many a labored column, at last
bring themselves to opposite conclusions on the same case. Is it
possible to give a more impressive illustration and evidence of the
fallacy of the whole faith than that two such men, both indoctrinated
in the same school, should, when brought to the practical application
of their principles, so differ about their import and obligation?”

I should humbly conceive it proved the fallacy of that faith which
holds that a senator cannot be wrong. Two senators “come to opposite
conclusions upon the same case,” and it proves not as simple mortals
would suppose, that _one_ must be wrong, but that the _legislature_ is
wrong. If _their difference_ only proves error in some one else, we
cannot wonder at the vast estimation in which senators are held by
their admirers. But their difference is not so great as supposed. One
says I cannot obey, and, therefore, I resign now; the other says you
want me to resign, but I will not now, but at the beginning of next
session. Here is the same conclusion from the same case. Mr. Leigh
postponed, but why will he resign at last? He gives no reason, but the
instructions, and no one has suggested any other. He must resign on
account of the disagreeable feelings produced by the peculiar position
of being a misrepresenting representative. Those feelings are required
and expected by our theory in the bosoms of all conscientious
senators. So even the difference which was to destroy us, is one of
_time_—not of _principle_. As to the argument that some of the voters
of last year gave contrary instructions the year before, if true,—it
does not prove them less worthy of respect now than then,—indeed, the
last being the more deliberate, is the more worthy opinion; and as Mr.
Tyler obeyed the first, _a fortiori_ he was bound to obey the last, or
resign.

I have done. Long as I have been with you, I have only touched the
most striking points. There are two documents which would have shed
light upon the obscurest part of this subject, I mean the letter of
ELDRIDGE GERRY to the Massachusetts convention, on the constitution of
the senate, and JAMES MADISON'S history of the constitution, and
debates of the convention. These were inaccessible, but whenever
examined they must confirm the views taken here. Though the Sun of
Montpelier has sunk in glory, below the horizon, it will thence shed a
brilliant but mellowed light upon its noon-day track, and mystic
truths so long hidden by its dazzling brilliancy, may be read by its
milder rays, engraven in letters of gold upon the imperishable arch of
Heaven. We must abide the coming of that time in mute faith, confiding
in what we have already learned from Moses and the prophets; but, if
it be no profanity to quote the sacred founder of our religious faith
in defence of our hallowed constitution, I would say, “If they hear
not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one
rose from the dead.”

ROANE.




'TIS THE LAST DAY OF SUMMER.


  'Tis the last day of Summer,
    Now fading away,
  As behind yon blue mountain,
    The sun hides its ray;
  And the low breeze is sighing,
    So chilly and drear,
  That, methinks, the wood whispers,
    Stern Autumn is near!

  'Tis the last day of Summer,
    And sad is the smile,
  That now lights up the gloom,
    Where it lingers awhile;
  Whilst the cloud that is wreathing,
    So gaily the west,
  But reveals by its brightness,
    The tempest's dark crest.

  'Tis the last day of Summer,
    And fleet as its ray
  Hath departed, so fleetly,
    Doth life speed away!
  But beyond _this drear gloom_,
    Is a resting place given,
  Where the spirit shall bask,
    In the summer of Heaven.

T. J. S.

_Frederick County, Aug. 31st, 1836_.


{693}


THE LEARNED LANGUAGES.


The youthful votary of knowledge, naturally infirm of purpose, is ever
prone to despond and falter in a pursuit the utility of which is not
immediate and palpable; yet he listens with amiable credulity to the
matured in judgment and the ripe in scholarship. It should therefore
be the duty and pride of such to cheer onward the ingenuous, even in
those studies whose inceptive difficulties alarm him. Hence we read
with feelings of regret and surprise an article in the August number
of the Messenger, from the pen of Mathew Carey, Esq., the inevitable
tendency of which will be to discourage students of the Classics, and
to diminish the estimation, already too low, in which they are held in
the south. We should be deterred from entering the list against a name
so imposing, and one which deserves so well of his adopted countrymen,
if we did not reflect that the inherent strength and self-tenability
of a good cause greatly outweigh the most splendid abilities in
sustaining a bad one. _Magna est veritas et prævalebit._ So thus we
hurl our white pebble from the river of Truth at the forehead of
Goliah.

Before we rush in _medias res_, permit us to premise that, if we chose
to decide this question with Mr. Carey by a preponderance of
authorities, the rich libraries of our university would supply an
array of illustrious names as long as that of John Lackland's barons.
But reason and experience shall be our only authorities, than which
there are none greater, not even Locke or Carey.

The universality of the study of the dead languages is objected to. “A
young Englishman, unless he goes to the University of Cambridge, has
scarcely a notion that there is any other kind of excellence.” But one
would suppose that the practice of studying them by all enlightened
nations, for so many centuries, ought to be conclusive evidence of
their utility; because mankind are so much influenced by interest,
that they are ever ready to abandon whatever does not promote it. Our
opponents, however, tell us that they were engrafted into seminaries
of learning in ages less enlightened than the present—that such is the
force of prejudice and custom, they have been continued as a course of
education despite their many disadvantages. Is this true? Have not
mankind long since shaken off their idolatrous veneration for
antiquity? The whole cumbrous and chaotic mass of feudal error has
fallen before the full blaze of modern discoveries and improvements.
But modern reformers and experimentalists, in removing the rubbish of
ignorance, and the rust of antiquity from literary institutions,
spared the languages in which Mæonides and Maro bequeathed to
posterity models more potent for inspiring genius than all the waters
of Castalia, in which Demosthenes and Cicero gave utterance to
sentiments which, even at this distant day, have impelled many to
deeds of noblest patriotism. Spared did we say? They have done more;
they have recommended redoubled attention to them. It is a fact, that
the learned languages are more extensively cultivated now than at any
former period, and that too by utilitarian and practical Englishmen—by
intellectual and acute Germans—by scientific Frenchmen—by economical,
pence-counting Scotchmen, in the teeth of opponents, powerful, gifted,
active. If they are worthy of so much attention in Europe, _a
fortiori_, they are worthy of it here, for the obvious reason that,
breathing as they do the spirit of liberty and republicanism, they
furnish ideas more congenial and valuable to that form of government
in which these principles are recognized, than to an oppressive one,
where Brutus is stigmatized as a murderer, and the burning words of
the two mighty scourges of tyranny regarded as dangerous food for
popular lips. In a free country eloquence is the lever that heaves the
body politic. In the Classics the purest models are found. Hence we
infer that they are the appropriate study of American youth, and that
it would be our highest glory to outstrip Europe in a knowledge of
them, as we have already done in the science of government.

In reply to the argument that the languages consume too much time from
the acquisition of English, we assume high ground, and lay down the
predicate that the study of them is the shortest, best and easiest way
to learn English. This idea will be illustrated by attending to the
_modus operandi_ of teaching. Before a student can acquire the idea
contained in the simplest sentence of a dead language, he must
ascertain the English meaning of every word in it; and before he can
render it correctly, he must study into what English moods, tenses,
and cases the words of his translation are to be put. If he do not
this, he will be liable to render a Latin or Greek imperfect by an
English future, and vice versa; hence it is evident that he must have
not only his classical books, but that an English Grammar, a
Geography, and a Dictionary must be ever at his side. Take an
illustration. The crude, disarranged sentence, “vinco Scipio Hannibal
in Africa,” and the English translation, (Scipio conquered Hannibal in
Africa) are given him to reduce to good Latin, and to explain the
three proper names. To do this he must refer to his English Grammar,
to find in what mood, tense, number, person and voice the verb
“conquered” is, and then take up the English books containing the
required information concerning Scipio, Hannibal and Africa: thus, in
correcting this short sentence, learning, perhaps, more of English
Grammar, Geography, and History, than of Latin. We are persuaded that
nine-tenths of our southern teachers will tell Mr. Carey, that in
their schools, consisting of Classical and English students, the Latin
scholars are the better English scholars—that they are the better
writers and speakers, the more cheerful and industrious, the more
influential with their fellows, and that they require in their studies
a larger number of English books than the other.

But if we are answered by Mr. Carey that he did not mean to assert
that the verbal and grammatical knowledge of English which has been
shown to be the result of the study of the Classics was lost thereby,
but that knowledge of a higher order, science and literature were
sacrificed to them, we have a reply ready at hand, which obviates this
objection, viz: that they are chiefly studied at that infantile period
of the intellect, when common sense teaches that it is not prepared to
comprehend either the abstrusities of Mathematics, the minutiæ of
Chymistry, or the mysteries of Philosophy. To require so much of mere
tyros, is as absurd as to exact of one of tender years and feeble
frame the labors of a Hercules. Mr. Carey need not be afraid that the
nascent stage of the mind above referred to, will be {694} left
without its appropriate food, even if the sciences are forbidden to
it. It is an established principle of the present day to educate the
faculties in the order of their development. In the spring time of
existence, Memory is the first to put forth its buds; and therefore,
in accordance with the truism just laid down, should receive the
earliest culture. What is more proper for this purpose than getting by
rote the simple rules of Grammar, tracing out and remembering the
definitions of words, and passing from author to author in the order
of their difficulties? In thus proceeding from what is easy to what is
comparatively difficult, the student would be obeying a law both of
reason and nature; his mental powers would be gradually invigorated
and expanded, until he would be prepared to enter with greater
probability of success on the dreaded path of Mathematics and
Philosophy; for the derivation and composition of their abstract and
scientific terms, would in many cases instantaneously and perfectly
suggest their meaning to the Classical scholar, whilst the English one
would be compelled to learn them laboriously and imperfectly from
English Dictionaries. It is this happy fitness of ancient languages to
that period of youth which, without them, would want a proper object
of study, that gives to them a crowning pre-eminence over every other
substitute.

We will now examine that extraordinary argument by which Mr. Carey
attempts to prove that too much time is consumed in the study of
languages, even in those few cases in which he would tolerate them at
all. Here it is. “That lads of moderate capacity, and no very
extraordinary application, frequently acquire the French language in
twelve or eighteen months,” &c. Again—“That the Latin language is not
more difficult than the French—indeed I believe not so difficult.”
From these _petitiones pricipii_, he draws the _non sequitur_
conclusion, “that it's an error to consume three, four, five or six
years in the attainment of the Latin.” Now every person at all
acquainted with Philology, knows that foreign language to be easiest
to himself which bears the greatest resemblance to his vernacular
tongue in its structure, syntax, the sequence of its words in
sentences, and the identity or similarity of many of its terms with
corresponding ones in his own language. It will be evident to any
individual, that in these particulars the French resembles our
language much more than the Latin. If he will only reflect, the whole
intricate machinery of declensions and conjugations, which constitutes
one of the greatest difficulties of ancient languages, is almost
entirely wanting in the French, and indeed in all modern languages.
Here I cannot do better than to quote the words of that elegant
rhetorician, Dr. Blair. “There is no doubt that in abolishing cases,
we have rendered the structure of modern languages more simple. We
have disembarrassed it of the intricacy which arose from the different
forms of declension. We have thereby rendered modern languages more
easy to be acquired, and less subject to the perplexity of rules.”
Again, in a subsequent chapter, he says, “Language (modern) has
undergone a change in conjugation perfectly similar to that which I
showed it underwent with respect to declension; the consequence was
the same as that of abolishing declensions; it rendered language
(modern) more simple and easy.” But the proof of the pudding is in the
eating; so the universal practice among teachers of giving much longer
French than Latin lessons, to be prepared in the same given time, is
conclusive of the more easy attainment of the former. Most opportunely
for the tenability of our argument, while we were preparing this
article, an intelligent student of the University stated to us that he
found he was making very little progress in French, and could assign
no reason for it, unless it was because French is so easy that it does
not take hold upon and engage the mind. But Mr. Carey would not only
limit the time during which the ancient languages ought to be studied;
he goes a good deal farther in his hostility to them, by advising that
they should be studied even during the short period of twelve or
eighteen months through the medium of translations. Now simply to
state that this plan would utterly destroy that strengthening of the
memory, disciplining of the mind, and refining of the taste, which
languages are known to afford, is to prove its absurdity. If his plan
should recommend itself to public adoption, the friends of Classical
literature would abandon its defence in despair. The followers in any
vocation are the best authority in the world in relation to the
vocation, whether they be statesmen, teachers, or shoemakers. The
united voice of teachers denounces translations as ruinous to the
minds and habits of their pupils; hence they are regarded as
contraband commodities, and as such, lawful confiscations to the
dominion of Vulcan. These labor-saving machines of the mind, like
those in mechanics, engender habits of idleness, by shortening the
time and toil of accomplishing a task, smoothing the way, leaving the
student nothing to elaborate for himself, until his mind is reduced to
a state of wretched imbecility and servile dependence. Can a mind thus
educated be prepared to make nice discriminations, to trace effect to
cause, to winnow away the chaff of error from the golden grains of
truth and wisdom? Even the little gained in this way is
evanescent—takes no root in the memory. To look for enduring and
accurate knowledge from him, would be as unreasonable as to expect a
correct description of a country from one who flies through it in a
steam car. But we might give up all that has yet been said about
translations, and still maintain our argument against them, upon the
ground that they do not express the meaning of the translated authors.
At least the fire, spirit, enthusiasm are squeezed out and
_skeletonized_ in dull, vapid, prosaic copies. And is not this the
case with all translations? Have not the French vainly essayed to
translate Milton and Shakspeare? Are not their abortive attempts
miserable caricatures? What becomes of the halo of glory which the
ancient artists threw around the forms of Apollo Belvidere, and the
Venus de Medicis, when copied—of the coloring of Titian, the sublimity
of Claude, and the grandeur of Raphael, when attempted to be
transferred to the canvass of some impotent imitator? Gone! Why should
we contemplate Homer and Virgil through those smoked glasses,
translations, when we can do it in the bright mirror of their own
languages? There remains yet another disadvantage of studying ancient
authors by translations. They cannot infuse that self-sacrificing
patriotism, that high moral, and almost romantic elevation of
character, which even Mr. Carey admits the poets of antiquity have a
tendency to create. These virtues must be contemplated, turned and
{695} returned in the mind, as they are portrayed in the originals—not
conned from “Horace's three hundred and seventeen lines introduced
into the Latin primer, to illustrate the rules of Grammar.”

But if Mr. Carey cannot argue down the ancient languages, he will
frighten parents from putting their sons to the study of them, and the
sons from studying, by asking, “how many years of life are spent in
learning—how much labor, pain, and imprisonment are endured by the
body—how much anxious drudgery by the master—how many habits are
formed of reluctance to regular employment, and how——” and the rest of
the bugbears. Oh, how will the preceding paragraph be hailed as
pregnant with wisdom by all our vigorous, idle, southern youth, who
long for more time out of school, to hunt, fish, and scamper over the
broad, umbrageous Campus. If Mr. Carey only knew the quantity of swine
and pancakes devoured by our students at a meal, and then behold them
rush to their sports, and jump twelve feet in the “clear,” he would
never again say that Latin kills boys. There might be some truth in
the assertion contained in the quotation now before us, if predicated
of German seminaries, where we are told the youth frequently study
fourteen hours out of the twenty-four. But let any one carefully
examine the pupils of an American academy, and he will be convinced
that they enjoy more happiness, health, and leisure than any other
class of the community. This fact is farther proven by the common
observation of educated men, that their school-boy days were the
happiest of their whole life, and that they never pass a group of
students, and witness the joyous outpourings of youthful feelings,
without envy. There is no royal road to learning. It is admitted that
the languages are not to be acquired without labor—hard labor. Is this
an evil to be deprecated? No. Whatever is acquired without it is
generally worthless, not prized—because no price, no toil, no sweat
has been paid for it. Constituted as society is, the original curse
denounced against man, “in the sweat of thy brow thou shall eat
bread,” has proven a blessing. Truly says the adage, “an idle brain is
the devil's work-shop.” An industrious one is the chosen abode of the
sister virtues. Why, then, should we increase the temptation to
idleness, already great to the youth of the south, by the banishment
of the only study, perhaps, suitable to the idlest stage of human
life? We should thus leave a chasm in the plan of instruction, and
that precious time unfilled up, when a regard to the formation of good
habits would imperiously require that it should _be filled up_ as far
as is consistent with health. Substitute something else, you say. If
what has already been said, does not prove that nothing else
effectually supplies their place, perhaps the following reflection may
assist to do it. The principal point in which we fall short of our
northern brethren, and of most European nations, is in our want of
system in our employments, and attention to the _small things_ of
business. Now the Classics demand constant attention to the most
minute marks and letters, together with the exercise of judgment,
patience, memory, classification—all of which are component parts of
system.

No disposition is felt to controvert the position taken by Mr. Carey,
that great men have been made under systems from which the learned
languages were excluded—or to discourage the gifted child of poverty,
who can never enjoy their advantages. Let such a one reflect that
there have been orators who never tasted the honied eloquence of
Cicero—bards whose lips were never touched with a “live coal” from the
poetic fire of Homer and Virgil—patriots whose bosoms were never
warmed, whose arms were never nerved by the story of Aristides and
Brutus. There are men to keep whom down would be as impossible as to
suppress the fires of Ætna. They ask—they need no aid from their
predecessors or cotemporaries. They will create opportunities and
modes of development and action for themselves. Very properly,
therefore, the institutions of society, the systems of education, are
not framed for them; but for ordinary beings—persons of mediocre
intellect, of which a vast majority of mankind are composed.

In reviewing the field of our argument, we find that the Classics have
been mainly defended upon the ground of the mental training and good
habits which result from the study of them—dry objects of pursuit
certainly to boys, but still most necessary. But we might long since
have cut this question short, by holding up the argument, the truth of
which is now generally admitted by competent judges, that it is
impossible to understand English in all its power, beauty,
copiousness, without a previous acquaintance with the Classics. But
the multitude, in the true spirit of English vanity, are constantly
proclaiming the entire independence of their language, and vauntingly
assert that it needs no plumage borrowed from any tongue under heaven.
Mark you! this was not said until the huge, misshapen skeleton of the
Anglo-Saxon had received a filling up—a beauty and proportion from
much abused Latin and Greek. Now, as the English language has declared
her _Independence_, and set up for herself, it is but fair that she
should surrender back to Greek and Latin the harmonious and expressive
words, the poetical imagery and rich mythology which she has stolen
from them, but which she has just found out she does not need. Let her
do this, and what does she become?—what she was originally. _Rudis
indigestaque moles_. We have never known the common-sense rule, viz:
That to know the _whole_ we must know all the _parts_, to be dispensed
with except in the case of the English language, which it appears can
be perfectly known without previously studying the languages of which
it is made up.[1] We however have no fears that our boasted vernacular
will be able to sustain her declaration, since Greek and Roman ideas,
illustrations, and allusions are so interwoven with it that they have
become an inseparable part and parcel of it. Those who would know the
nice and delicate shades of meaning belonging to English derived
terms, will ever betake themselves to the fountain-head for this
knowledge. What praise do we unwittingly bestow upon the two noble
tongues of antiquity, when we consider that the highest compliment we
can pay our illustrious characters is to compare them to some Greek or
Roman worthy—to say of a Washington he is a Fabius, of a {696}
Franklin he is a Socrates, of a Henry he is a Demosthenes!

[Footnote 1: Since this short article was penned, the number of words
of Greek and Latin derivation in it was roughly estimated to be eight
hundred, though the writer made an effort to use words purely English
in all cases where they would answer the purpose as well.]

The department of poetry would lose the most by a neglect of the
Classics. As the bards of antiquity were the first to walk forth into
the garden of poetry, they did not fail to appropriate to themselves
their most beautiful flowers; they, having the gathering of the
harvest, have left to the moderns in many branches of the poetic art
naught but the mere gleanings of the field. These ancient poems have
been so translated, paraphrased, metamorphosed by modern poets, that a
mere English scholar would find nearly as much difficulty in the works
of the latter, as in those of the former. A glance at one more
argument in favor of the learned languages, and this discussion is
closed. The history of the forum and halls of legislation proves that
in the actual conflict of mind against mind, the Classical orator has
a decided advantage over an antagonist who has merely an English
education, though in every other respect they be entirely equal. His
knowledge of the variety and flexibility of his own tongue, will place
at his command a greater copiousness of words, a wider range of
selection, a greater fluency and facility in the utterance of them
than his unfortunate antagonist can possibly pretend to.

In conclusion, we would say to the ingenuous of the Old Dominion—of
the whole south, be not discouraged, be not deluded. The inceptive
steps of all great undertakings are slow—sometimes unpleasant. If the
beauty, perfection, and pre-eminent usefulness of the Classics are not
at present obvious, you will at your docile age be willing to take
something on trust, and to pursue your studies under the assurance,
that by degrees the circumference of your vision will be enlarged, the
point from which you take it in will be elevated, until you shall
stand on the pinnacle of the temple of knowledge. Although you will
not be so unreasonable as to expect to behold the interior and
brighter glories of the temple, while you are merely entering the
vestibule, yet along your path you will meet with many flowers to
cheer you onward. You have every encouragement to proceed. Are you
emulous to serve your country in the halls of legislation? You will,
at the completion of your scholastic education, come forth armed with
weapons from the armory of Demosthenes and Cicero. Would you create a
southern literature? Your present studies are the very first step
towards it. Your discouragers may be defied to point you to a single
nation eminent in literature, and at the same time proscribers of the
Classics. Contribute your mite to demonstrate to the world that this
is not the land where “Genius sickens and Fancy dies,” and to enable
your countrymen to point proudly to our sister band of states, and say
of one, this is our Arcadia—of another, this is our Laconia—of a
third, this is our Attica. Do not suppose that this is too much to
expect. By the blessing of God, and the operation of causes now at
work, to this pitch of glory we must arrive. You live in the region of
great men; you daily tread upon the same lines of latitude once
trodden by Homer, Demosthenes, and Plato. _Macte nova virtute puer,
sic itur ad astra._

                     Hæc exempla—
  Nocturna versate manu, versate diurna.

Hæc studia adolescentiam alunt, senectutem oblectant, secundas res
ornant, adversis solatium et perfugium præbent, delectant domi, non
impediunt foris, pernoctant nobiscum, peregrinantur, rusticantur.

_University of North Carolina, October, 1836._




LINES TO A WILD VIOLET,
FOUND IN THE WOODS OF ALABAMA.

BY HENRY THOMPSON.


  Type of thy God, in nature drest,
  Emblem of innocence and rest,
  Why hid'st thou in the sunless glade
  Those lovely tints which sure were made
        To woo the light?
  Hast thou too felt the cold world's scorn,
  The with'ring blight of rayless morn
  That thus within the woodland gloom
  In ivy shade you're wont to bloom
        So far from sight?
  And wilt thou fade in lonely bower,
  Pale, gentle, melancholy flow'r!
  And die when leaves in vernal dearth
  Shall kiss the cold and dewy earth
        In autumn day?
  Or wilt thou wither on _my_ heart,
  And there sweet sympathy impart,
  And give beneath the dew of grief,
  Those lovely hues so bright and brief,
        To slow decay?
  Ah! no, I will not thus intrude,
  To mar thy gentle solitude,
  For thou art pure and undefil'd,
  Lonely and beautiful and wild,
        A forest queen!
  Bloom on in thy secluded dell,
  Sweet flow'r! that lovest alone to dwell!
  And there within thy silent glade,
  In God's own purity array'd,
        Perish unseen.




TRAITS OF A SUMMER TOURIST.

No. I.

  _Hamlet_.  I am very glad to see you. Good even, sir.
             But what, in faith, make you from Wirtenburg?

  _Horatio_. A truant disposition, good my lord!

_Hamlet_.


Steaming from Washington to Baltimore is an improvement upon that
route at least. “I pity the man who can travel from Dan to Beersheba
and say ‘all is barren;’” was the beneficent _dictum_ of a philosopher
as wise as he was witty,—but he never travelled on the post-road from
the Monumental city to the capital of the western world. If he had, I
fear that precious morceau of pitiful cosmopolitism would have never
fallen from his pen.

The locomotive Andrew Jackson whirled us by a series of fields, of
which one will serve as a sample. It consisted of about three acres,
from the surface of which a few weakly, wilting, pea-green shoots were
starting reluctantly upwards, and which nine negroes were {697} trying
to make a corn-field of, by dint of most desperate hoeing. Patches of
rye and wheat were seen also, at intervals, most forcibly illustrating
the condition of Egyptian fields in the seven years of famine of
Joseph's time. It was plain that this section of the country, (as
Mr. Senator G—— remarked to the representative for the district,) was
fit for nothing else than to make rail roads of.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the end of “The Thomas Viaduct,” a beautiful piece of mechanism, by
the way, is the “Viaduct Hotel,” _not_ so beautiful. As we passed,
several of the Light Corps of the city [Baltimore] were “standing at
ease” by the door of the hotel. They had gone out thither to spend the
day of our nation's birth, in drinking mint-julaps, and watching the
passing and repassing of the rail road cars. It seemed to be an object
with them to discover, as we flew onward, who, of all the grandees who
had just concluded those labors which had for seven months been making
Washington so famous, were forming a part of our freight. The senator
was for stopping the cars, and giving the representative a chance at
the stump, before so goodly an array of his constituents. But whether
he thought the audience not “fit,” nor “few” enough for such a
display, I could not discover—the Colonel declined the proposal.

       *       *       *       *       *

Commend me to mine host of the Exchange! Page's is the very home of
good order, good cheer, good company, and all else that is good,—the
very place where one may ask, with a confidence defying negation,
“Shall I not take mine ease in mine inn?” We found our rooms
commodious and airy, and soon saw reason to bless our forethought, in
having pre-engaged our accommodations, while compassionating the
“potent, grave, and reverend seniors” of the land, as they cubiculated
on pallets in the dining-rooms, and were, in some instances, denied
the liberty to hang for the night upon a hat-hook! Always engage rooms
a week before hand, considerate traveller.

       *       *       *       *       *

Who shall adequately describe what has so often been dwelt upon by
tourists, the distinctive peculiarities of the older cities of the
Union? To attempt it were “damnable iteration.” Suffice it therefore
to say, that Baltimore has beautiful brick edifices, with pure white
marble porches and porticoes—several splendid public buildings, among
which none is more deserving of particular mention, inside and
outside, than the Unitarian Church, (although Baltimoreans generally
“stump” on the Cathedral,) two monuments, one in questionable and the
other in unquestionable taste—and upon the whole, neat, clean,
orderly, and well-kept streets. She has here and there public
fountains, supplied with ever-flowing streams of the purest
water,—baths, places of public amusement, (although theatrical
entertainments are not much in favor there,) shot-towers, hotels,
newspapers, steamboats, rail roads, and pretty women in great
abundance. Few cities possess a more refined or more generally
diffused taste for music, painting, architecture, and the fine arts in
general, than Baltimore. Her present situation, in a commercial and
enterprising point of view, is extremely encouraging; and recent
legislation in regard to internal improvements will doubtless have a
very beneficial effect upon her fortunes.

A steamboat burned to the water's edge last night, at one of the
wharves, and a boy was consumed as he was sleeping in the cabin! It
was a pleasure boat, and had been running to different points in the
neighborhood of the city all the day previous. The unfortunate boy who
lost his life was a wanderer from New York, and had been permitted by
the captain to sleep and board in the cabin, until a vessel in which
he was about to go to sea, was ready to sail. He had retired to rest,
after a day of toil to him, though of pleasure to those upon whom he
had been waiting, as one of the hands on board the boat; and met his
horrible fate while sleeping in innocent unconsciousness of danger.
The neglect of the watchman who had been entrusted with the care of
the boat, was the cause of the fire, that unfaithful officer having
left his charge to join in a carousal in the town. How fearful a
thought, that all our enjoyments are obtained by others' pains! The
smiles that deck the faces of the few are watered in their growth by
the tears of the many.

       *       *       *       *       *

How neglectful of the _minutiæ_ of comfort and convenience are most of
those who cater for the traveller's enjoyment in his journeyings along
these great thoroughfares of our country! Here are we, arrived in the
city of brotherly love, upon one of the very hottest days in the year,
and upon asking for rooms at a new and much vaunted hotel, are ushered
into a suite of three flights of stairs, and glowing, almost
_hissing_, with the concentrated rays of the meridian sun, shining
through crimson curtains—“Think of that, Master Brook,”—_crimson
curtains_, in weather to set the very mercury in the thermometer a
bubbling! As honest Jack said upon a not dissimilar occasion, “it was
a miracle to 'scape suffocation!” What salamanders must be the
people of the M—— house! We could not stand it, and so, after one
night's parboiling, we turned our backs upon the rectangular city,
resolved never to “tarry” there, in summer time again, until she had
her Tremont, her Page's, or her Astor's to receive and accommodate us.

       *       *       *       *       *

Arrived at New York, I was told that half the town were “out of
town”—a comfortable assurance, methought, for we can have our choice
of quarters. Yet were we three hours in finding a place whereon to lay
our heads! I soon learned that by “the town” was meant that wandering,
gossipping, gadding, sight-seeking, lionizing, country-visiting
portion of this great Babel, who make it a point to spend all “the
months that have no R,” at the crowded watering places of their own
and the neighboring states. But they have left the streets as noisy,
as crowded, and as business-like as ever, and a stranger feels quizzed
when told that they are empty.

The sail up the Hudson is full of interest, and thousands are now
daily enjoying the many attractions it presents to the traveller. As
the city at this season is any thing but delightful, I got on board
the good steamer Erie, (to which commend me ever,) and bade adieu to
hot streets, and the crowded thorough-fares for a season. On my return
I may find it worthy of a sketch or two.

The Hudson is very broad near its mouth, or junction with the East
River, at the harbor of New York. {698} Hoboken, New Brighton, Jersey
City, and Staten Island, besides Brooklyn on the East, lie invitingly
contiguous, and are attained by steamboats constantly running thither
at every hour in the day. As they are all plentifully provided with
green lawns, and cool shades, to say nothing of numerous houses of
refreshment, you may be assured, that in the hot season, they are by
no means vacant. As you go up the river, and leave the island on which
the great city is laid out, on your right, the first prominent object
that strikes your eye is _Fort Lee_ on the left, which the map tells
us is ten miles from New York. This was an important post in the
revolutionary contest, and is now in ruins. Its position is admirable,
standing on the bluff which commences the celebrated _Palisadoes_.
These extend twenty miles up the river, and are curious ridges of
rocks, from two to six hundred feet high, very much resembling that
species of defence, whence they derive their name. Passing along, the
traveller is prompted by the guide books to look at _Tappan Bay_,
where the celebrated Andre attempted to take an advantage of the
treason of the despicable Arnold, which would have been fatal to the
cause of liberty, but for the fidelity of some of the American scouts.
The spy was executed very near this place. The next place of interest
is _Sing-Sing_, where is one of the New York State Prisons. As we
intended to visit the more interesting one at Auburn, we did not stop
here, but casting a glance at the _Sleepy Hollow_ of Irving's Rip Van
Winkle, we glided on, and soon entered _The Highlands_.

I had never imagined that any thing half so grand and so picturesque
awaited us on our up-river jaunt. The half had not been told. Besides
the splendor of the scenery,—the tremendous hills and ravines on one
side, and the gently levelling upland and lowland fields and meadows,
full of fertility and the promise of rich harvests, on the
other,—there were a thousand associations with the early history of
our Republic, especially with that interesting period, when “men's
souls were tried,” which rendered it a continuous and uninterrupted
scene of thrilling and exciting interest. _Stony Point_ and old Wayne,
Forts _Montgomery_ and _Clinton_ with Gates, Sir Henry Clinton, and
“Old Put,” Independence, Bloody Pond, General Vaughan, James Clinton,
and a thousand other places and names throng upon the memory, and tell
the tale over again of a most interesting part of that glorious
struggle for freedom by our brave fathers.

On one of the boldest and most commanding of those highland eminences,
the traveller soon perceives the moss-grown battlements of Fort
Putnam, over-hanging the barracks of the Military Academy at _West
Point_. As the steamboat passes this headland, Kosciusko's monument,
erected by order of government, is discerned, and then the hotel comes
in sight. Intending to stop at mine host _Cozzens'_ on our way down
the river, we did not land, but went on to _Catskill_ landing, where
we debarked, and took stage for the celebrated Mountain House, at Pine
Orchard. This is a grove situated on the table land near the summit of
one of the most lofty of the Catskills, and is more than two thousand
feet above the level of the Hudson. We found there a most commodious
hotel, the view from the front piazza of which is exceedingly
picturesque. We experienced a great change in the weather upon
reaching the Mountain House, having left an almost torrid climate at
the foot of the hill, and finding it cold enough at the top for a
fire. We therefore retired to rest, after this, our first day's
journey, with great expectation for the morn.

Salvator Rosa alone could do justice to the scenery around Pine
Orchard. The pencil of modern artists may find much here to furnish a
fitting subject for their attempts, and they may succeed in giving
pleasing sketches from its inexhaustible sources of picturesque and
romantic illustration. But it requires the hand of that great painter
of the grand, the sublime, the stupendous, fitly to _illustrate_ that
scenery.

You look down three thousand feet into a valley, stretching over an
hundred miles in one direction, and more than half that distance in
the other, in the midst of which runs the river Hudson, covered at
this season with craft of various descriptions, which, from that great
elevation, seem mimic boats upon a rivulet. At your feet a rocky
precipice descends perpendicularly, the depth of which it is
impossible to estimate, as it has never been explored, and loses
itself, to the eye of the gazer from the summit, amidst the rude and
tangled masses of primeval forest, stretching downward to the distant
valley, verdantly sloping to the river's banks. This is the scene
presented to the sojourner at the Mountain House, and its many
changes, like those of a panorama, render the prospect intensely
interesting, in every aspect of the weather.

Having enjoyed this first gush of picturesque beauty, you are
reminded, by the daily arrival of the proper vehicles at the door, of
a scene of yet more mingled romance,—the cascades of _Canterskill_.
These lie at the termination of a delightful woodland path, along the
side of which flows a smooth and quiet stream, taking its rise in a
lake upon which you bestow, as you pass, a gratified glance. Following
this rivulet you come suddenly to the brink of a tremendous precipice,
shelving down between woody mountains, with rough rocky ravines,
seemingly unattainable by human feet. But your guide holds a clue,
following which you soon attain a level formed of sandstone and
gray-wacke, and await the fall of the water from the edge of the
precipice, one hundred and seventy-five feet above. As the water at
this season runs low, the proprietor has taken the precaution to dam
it up above the precipice, and so lets it fall when a company of
visiters demand it. This fall is very beautiful. No obstacle
intervenes to break the silvery sheet as it descends, and, as it comes
over the rough edges of the rock at top, it assumes a form as of
feathery spray, which is sometimes so thin and vapory, as to float
away without reaching the level at all. Descending eighty feet
farther, you see the second fall, the termination of which is even
more grand and savage than the upper level. Here you may see both
falls at the same instant, and from a situation which challenges
another attribute of grandeur and sublimity to enhance the perfect
enchantment of the scene.

       *       *       *       *       *

We lingered at Catskill several days in a sort of dreamy state of
quiet enjoyment,—now fishing, now roving among the woods, now
stretched on the brink of the Pine Orchard looking listlessly down
upon the impenetrable forests, the smiling, sunny valleys, or the
silver thread of water, on which seemed {699}

  “———the tall anchoring bark
   Diminished to her cock,—her cock a bouy
   Almost too small for sight”

and where the many steamers that smoke their daily course along the
Hudson, seemed like some tiny utensil discharging its culinary office.
There would we gaze upon the lifting fog-banks at morning, watching
the sunbeams as they gradually struggled forth to irradiate, first the
distant valley, and so diffusing thin yellow glory upward and upward,
until, at length, we stood in the midst of their effulgence, and saw
their vapory veil floating away over our heads, like gossamer web of
the dew spider.

Nor were our household attractions few or powerless. Many visiters
were at the Orchard, but there was a coterie of young ladies with
their brothers and husbands from the neighboring village of the
Catskill, from whose good offices and gentle hospitality we derived a
great deal of additional enjoyment. Music, books, and conversation
drove away ennui during those hours, when the inclemency of the
weather or fatigue compelled us to suspend our out-of-door amusements,
and we were thus enabled to enjoy the everlasting scenery of the
Catskill, under auspices the most favorable.

       *       *       *       *       *

New Lebanon Springs next attracted us. They lie about twenty-seven
miles from Hudson, which is ten miles up the river on the opposite
side, whither we went by the same steamer that had landed us at
Catskill, and thence by stages to New Lebanon.

New Lebanon is a pleasant village, near the eastern line of the state
of New York, lying in a most fertile and valuable tract of country,
with alternations of gently sloping hills and smiling valleys, all of
which seem arable and productive. The most popular public house is
that to which the Spring that gives a name to the place, belongs. It
is very well kept, but was far too crowded for comfort,—the day of our
arrival being Saturday, and great numbers having come from Albany,
Troy, Saratoga, Ballston Spa, &c. to witness the worship (?) of the
Shakers on the Sabbath.

       *       *       *       *       *

The waters of these Springs have no very decided mineral or medicinal
qualities,—but as they are very profuse in their flow, and as their
temperature is always rising of seventy degrees, Fahrenheit, they are
delightful for bathing in the summer season. The proprietors have,
accordingly, fitted up commodious bathing houses, which are very well
attended, and afford, by no means, the weakest attraction to be found
at New Lebanon. But even in this respect they cannot be compared with
the Warm and Hot Springs of Bath county in Virginia.

The truth is, New Lebanon invites the visiter more by the salubrity of
its climate, the rural beauty of its scenery, the quiet seclusion
which it offers to the town-weary traveller, and more than all, by its
accessibility from so many populous parts of the country, than by any
magic virtues possessed or imparted by its “springs,” and all these
inducements combine to keep the pretty little village full to
overflowing from spring to autumn. I saw many visiters from the
southern states there among the rest, and was gratified to learn that
there is an annual increase of business at “Columbian Hall.” In my
next I shall describe a scene at the Shaker's Church.

VIATOR.




SACRED SONG.


  “There's a bliss beyond all that the minstrel has told,”
    When the heart's best affections are yielded to God,
  And the spirit that wandered, returns to the fold
    Of the Saviour who bought it by shedding of blood!
  One moment of rapture so holy, is worth
    Far more than whole ages of wandering bliss;
  And oh! if a joy ever gild this dark earth,
              It is this, it is this!

  The pleasures of time are all fleeting and vain—
    The bubbles that sparkle o'er life's turbid stream,
  E'en the ties of affection are sundered in twain,
    When the dark clouds of sorrow portentously gleam.
  But the rapture that thrills through the soul at its birth
    Into favor with God, is ineffable bliss;
  And oh! if a joy ever gild this dark earth,
              It is this, it is this!

 T. J. S.




MARTIN LUTHER INCOGNITO.


_Mr. Editor_,—Public attention has recently been attracted, with great
justice, to the Memoirs of Luther, by Professor Michelet of Paris; a
work remarkable, first, as composed almost entirely of the Reformer's
own words, and, secondly, as proceeding from a Roman Catholic. You
will not, I trust, deem it unseasonable to accept the translation of a
very rare and entertaining document, relating some scenes eminently
illustrative of this great man's private manners. Allow me to premise,
by way of refreshing the reader's memory, that after the celebrated
appearance of Luther at the Diet of Worms, he was secretly snatched
away by his friend the Elector, and kept for some months in the castle
of Wartburg. The paper which follows gives some account of his return.
It is from the pen of an honest Swiss, and is written in the
Swiss-German dialect, but is so full of racy diction and inimitable
naïveté, that it cannot fail to gratify every lover of ancient story.
I have availed myself, here and there, of an antique idiom or phrase,
as remarkably comporting with the rude original.[1]

  Respectfully, &c.
    JAMES W. ALEXANDER.

[Footnote 1: The document may be seen In Marheineke's History of the
German Reformation, vol. i, p. 319. Berlin, 1831.]

       *       *       *       *       *

I cannot forbear to relate, though it may chance to seem trifling and
even childish, how I, John Kessler, and my comrade John Reutiner, fell
into company with Martin Luther, at the time when he was enlarged from
his captivity, and was on his way back to Wittenberg. For as we were
journeying thither, for the sake of studying the holy scriptures, we
came to Jena, in the Thuringian territory, (and God knows in a dismal
storm,) and after much inquiry in the city for an inn where we might
lodge for the night, we were utterly unable to find any. The taverns
were shut against us on every side, for it was carnival-time, at which
season there is little care for wayfaring people. So we had come to
the outskirts of the town, thinking to go on further, to find if
possible some hamlet where we might be entertained. Under the very
gate of the town, as {700} we went out, there met us a reverend man,
who greeted us kindly, and asked whither we were bound at so late an
hour. For he said there was neither house nor court-yard offering us
lodging, which we could reach before the dead of night, and that the
way was intricate; therefore he counselled us to abide where we were.
We answered, “Good sir, we have been to every hostelry which has been
shown to us, but every where we have been denied entrance; we must
needs go further.” Then he asked whether we had inquired at the Black
Bear. To which we replied, “No such inn have we seen, pray tell us
where we may find it.” He then pointed out the place, a little without
the town. And though all the innkeepers had dismissed us, yet no
sooner had we reached the Black Bear, than the host came to the door,
helped us in, and gave us the kindest welcome, taking us into the
common room. There we found a man sitting alone at a table, with a
little book lying before him, who saluted us in a friendly manner, and
invited us to come forward and seat ourselves by him at the table. Now
(under favor be it spoken) our shoes were so clogged with the filth of
the roads, that we dared not to enter with freedom, but crept in
softly, and sat upon a bench by the door. But he invited us to drink
with him, which indeed we could not refuse.

After we had accepted his friendly and courteous advances, we placed
ourselves, as he desired, at the table near him, and ordered some wine
that we might drink to his honor; having no other thought than that he
was a trooper, for he sat, after the manner of the country, in a red
cloak, with doublet and hose, a sword by his side, with his right hand
upon the pommel and his left grasping the hilt. He soon began to ask
the place of our birth, and then, answering his own question, added,
“You are Switzers. From what part of Switzerland come you?” We
answered, “From St. Gallen.” “You will find,” said he, “at Wittenberg,
whither I understand you are going, some excellent people, such as
Doctor Jerome Schurf, and his brother Doctor Augustin.” We replied,
that we had letters to them; and then proceeded to ask in turn, “Sir,
can you certainly inform us whether Martin Luther is now at
Wittenberg, or in what place he is?” “I have sure information,” said
he, “that Luther is not in Wittenberg at this time; but he is to be
there shortly. Philip Melancthon however is there; he teaches the
Greek tongue, as there are others who teach the Hebrew, both which
languages I earnestly exhort you to study; for they are necessary
preparations to the understanding of the scriptures.” We answered,
“God be praised, if our lives are spared, we shall not rest until we
see and hear that man; on his account it is that we have undertaken
this journey; for we understood that he was minded to set aside the
priesthood, with the mass, as an unauthorized service. Now, inasmuch
as we have, from our youth up, been trained and set apart, by our
parents, to become priests, we desire to hear what reason he can show
for such a design.”

After some conversation of this kind, he asked, where we had already
studied. We answered, “At Basle.” “How fares it,” said he, “at Basle?
Is Erasmus Roterodamus there at present? What is he doing?” “Sir,”
replied we, “so far as we know all things go on well. But what Erasmus
is doing there is no one can tell, for he keeps himself quiet and
aloof.” Now it struck us with great surprise that the trooper should
talk thus, and that he was able to discourse about Schurf, and Philip,
and Erasmus, and about the importance of both Greek and Hebrew.
Moreover, he would now and then let slip a Latin word, which made us
suspect that he was something different from an ordinary cavalier.
“Prithee,” said he, “what is thought of Luther in Switzerland?” “Sir,”
said I, “there, as elsewhere, there are diversities of opinion. Some
there are who cannot enough extol him, and thank God that by his means
he has revealed his truth and discovered error; but others denounce
him as an intolerable heretic; and such are chiefly the clergy.” “Ah,”
said he, “I could warrant it was the parsons.” In such talk he
continued to be very sociable, so that my comrade made free to take up
the little book which lay before him and open it. It was a Hebrew
Psalter. He then laid it down, and the trooper took it up. Hereupon we
fell into still greater doubt as to who he might be. Then said my
comrade, “I would give a finger off my hand, if I could thereby
understand this language.” The man replied, “You may attain it, if you
will only bestow labor; I also desire this attainment greatly, and am
exercising myself every day to make greater proficiency.”

By this time the day was declining and it had become quite dark, and
the host entered lo look to the table. As he saw our eager curiosity
about Martin Luther, he said, “My good fellows, had you been here two
days sooner, you might have been gratified, for he was then sitting at
this very table.” And with this he pointed out the place. We were now
chagrined and vexed at our own delay, and provoked at the bad roads
which had been our hinderance; but we said, “It rejoices as to be in
the house, and at the very table where he has lately sat.” At this the
host could not but laugh, and went immediately out. After a little
while, he called me to the outside of the door. I was alarmed, and
began to think with myself in what I had been unseemly, or of what I
could be suspected. The host then said to me, “Since I perceive in
very truth that you long to see and hear Luther—the man who sits by
you is he.” This I took in jest, and said, “Ay, sir host, you would
fain mock me, and stay my curiosity with Luther's lodging.” He
replied, “It is assuredly he; nevertheless, do nothing to show that
you recognize him.” I straightway left the host, still being
incredulous, and returning to the room seated myself at the table, and
was very desirous to let my companion know what the host had
disclosed. I therefore turned myself towards the door and at the same
time towards him, saying softly, “The host says that this is Luther.”
Like myself he could not believe it, and said, “Perhaps he said it was
_Hutten_[2] and you have misunderstood him.” Now, as the horseman's
dress suited better with Hutten, than with Luther, who was a monk, I
persuaded myself that the host had said, “It is Hutten;” for the
beginning of both names sounds alike. All that I said, therefore, was
under the supposition that I was conversing with Ulrich ab Hutten.

[Footnote 2: Ulrich von Hutten; a celebrated knight and statesman, and
a friend of Luther, who died two years after these events, in 1523.]

In the midst of these things there came in two merchants, who wished
to pass the night, and when they {701} had laid aside their habits and
spurs, one of them placed beside him a small unbound book. Martin
asked what book it was. “It is Doctor Luther's exposition of sundry
gospels and epistles, just printed and published; have you never seen
it?” At this time the host appeared and said, “Draw near to the table,
for we are about to eat.” We however spoke to him and begged that he
would bear with us so far as to give us something by ourselves. But
the host said, “Dear fellows, seat yourselves by the gentleman at the
table, I will give you good cheer.” And when Martin heard this, he
said, “Come along, I will pay the reckoning.”

During the meal Martin gave us much friendly and godly discourse, so
that both we and the tradespeople paid more attention to his words
than to all our food. Among other things he lamented with a sigh, that
while the princes and nobles were now assembled at the Diet at
Nuremberg, on account of God's word, and the impending affairs and
grievances of the German nation; yet they undertake nothing but to
spend their time in expensive jousts, cavalcades, frolics and
debauchery. “But such,” said he, “are our Christian princes!”

He further said that it was his hope that gospel truth would bring
forth fruit among our children and descendants, who are not poisoned
by popish error, but are now grounded in the pure truth of God's word,
more than among their parents, in whom error is so rooted that it
cannot be easily eradicated. Upon this the tradespeople united in
expressing their opinion, and the elder of them said, “I am a plain,
simple layman; I have no particular knowledge of this business. But
this I say, as the matter seems to me, Luther must be either an angel
from heaven or a devil out of hell. I have here ten gulden that I
would gladly give that I might confess to him; for I believe he is the
man that can and would direct my conscience.”

Meanwhile the host came to us and said privately, “Do not trouble
yourselves about the reckoning; Martin has settled for your supper.”
This gave us great joy, not for the sake of the money or the cheer,
but that we had been entertained by such a man. After supper the
merchants arose, and went into the stable to see to their horses;
while Martin was left alone with us in the room. We then thanked him
for his favor, and at the same time let him understand that we took
him for Ulrich ab Hutten. But he answered, “I am not he.” Here the
host came near, to whom Martin said, “I have to-night been made a
nobleman, for these Switzers take me to be Ulrich ab Hutten.” “And you
are no such person,” said the host, “but Martin Luther.” At which he
laughed, and said with great glee, “These take me for Hutten, and you
for Martin Luther; I shall soon be called Martinus Marcolfus.” And
after some such discourse, he took a high beer-glass, and said, after
the custom of the country, “Switzers, join me in a friendly glass to
your health.” And as I was about to take the glass, he changed it, and
ordered instead of it a flask of wine, saying, “The beer is to you an
unaccustomed beverage; drink wine.”

With that he arose, threw his knight's cloak over his shoulder, and
bid us good night, giving us his hand as he said, “When you arrive at
Wittenberg commend me to Dr. Jerome Schurf.” We said, “We will
cheerfully do so, but how shall we name you, that he may understand
your greeting?” “Only say,” said he, “that he who is on his way greets
you; he will soon understand you.” And so saying he went to bed. After
this the tradespeople returned, ordered the host to bring them
something to drink, and had much conversation concerning the unknown
guest who had been sitting by them. The host made known that he took
him to be Luther, which the merchants believing, lamented very much
that they had behaved themselves so rudely in his presence; saying
that they would on this account rise so much earlier the next morning
before he departed, in order to beg that he would not take it in ill
part, nor be offended, as they had not known his person. This they
accordingly did, finding him next morning in the stable. Martin
answered them: “You said last night at supper, that you would
willingly give ten florins that you might confess to Luther. When
therefore you confess to him you will discover whether I am he.” And
without betraying himself any further he mounted and rode on his way
towards Wittenberg. On the same day we set out on the same road, and
arrived at a village lying at the foot of a mountain; I think the
mountain is called Orlamund, and the village Nasshausen. The stream
which flows through this was swollen by the rains, and the bridge
being in part carried away so that horses could not pass, we turned
aside into the village, where we chanced to fall in with the same
merchants, who entertained us there free of cost for Luther's sake. On
the Saturday after, being one day after Luther's arrival, we called
upon Doctor Jerome Schurf, in order to present our letters. When we
were ushered into the room, whom should we see but Martin Luther, the
same as at Jena, together with Philip Melancthon, Justus Jodocus
Jonas, Nicholas Amsdorf, and Doctor Augustin Schurf, relating what had
befallen him in his absence from Wittenberg. He greeted us and said,
laughing as he pointed with his finger, “This is the Philip Melancthon
of whom I told you.” Upon which Philip turned to us, and asked us many
questions, which we answered according to our knowledge. And thus we
passed the day on our part with great joy and satisfaction.




LINES
WRITTEN AT THE GRAVE OF A FRIEND.


  It is a lovely spot they chose,
    This green and grassy dell!
  And here in death's long, last repose,
    Eudora now sleeps well:
  Escaped from all her mortal pain,
  She sleeps—and will not wake again.

  Oh! who that knew her can forget
    That highly polished mind?
  Those charms that Love must cherish yet,
    In that fair form enshrined?
  And that warm heart that felt the flame
  Of friendship—worthy of the name?

  Yes, she was one of those—the few—
    That decorate the earth;
  A diamond of the purest dew;
    Nor knew I half its worth             {702}
  Till death had stolen the precious gem
  That would have graced a diadem.

  But why am I lamenting here,
    When she is now at rest;
  And, happy in her heavenly sphere,
    Her soul is with the blest?
  No, no, I will not, will not weep:
  Enjoy, sweet saint, thy sacred sleep.

                                              * *

_Norfolk_.




ALFIERI AND SCHILLER.

BY MRS. E. F. ELLET.


The characteristic differences between the national drama of the
Germans and that of the Italians, as well as in the genius of the two
writers, are strikingly shown by a comparison of the works of Alfieri
and Schiller. Nor need we refer to the whole range of their respective
productions; the two great poets have more than once, by their choice
of the same subject for dramatic effort, afforded us opportunity to
draw a parallel between them. The distinction is exactly the reverse
of what the characters of the nations would lead us to expect; the
cold and classic simplicity of the ancient school pertaining to the
more ardent and volatile Italian, while the energy of expression and
warmth of action peculiar to the romantic system belong to the
representative of a colder and more meditative race. We shall not now
employ ourselves in endeavoring to discover the causes of the general
barrenness of the drama among a people of a temperament so
imaginative, and whose history has been so rich in the materials of
fiction. It is our object to show the vast difference which actually
exists between the tragic compositions of Italy and those of the
German school; as well as to give some idea of the peculiarities of
the two authors who form the subject of this article. For this
purpose, we select a play of each, founded upon the same historical
event, and portraying in part the same characters; and purpose to
offer a close analysis of both.

The “_Filippo_” of Alfieri treats of the same events with the “_Don
Carlos_” of Schiller. It was the first published production of the
noble poet, and is marked by much of the harshness of diction and
severe simplicity, amounting almost to baldness, which distinguished
his earlier plays. The author avoids, with scrupulous care, any thing
approaching to local coloring; excluding all inferior personages from
the stage, and admitting no forms or observances that might remind us
of our vicinity to the person of the Spanish monarch. The chief care
of Alfieri is ever bestowed upon the character of his protagonist; and
it is to that point we must direct our attention.

It is well known that Philip II supplanted his unfortunate son Don
Carlos, and married the princess to whom the youth had been betrothed
with the consent of both crowns. Our poet depicts the disastrous
attachment of the devoted pair. The piece opens with a passionate
soliloquy of Isabella, in which she reproaches herself bitterly for
the unconquered love she bears to the son of her husband. Her mind
revolts at the idea of such an affection, which she fears her
indiscretion may one day betray to its object. She distrusts her every
word and look. In the midst of this, the prince enters, evidently
unhappy, and earnestly asks her reason for avoiding his presence. He
perceives that the whole court is hostile to him; miserable and
oppressed, he cannot wonder that he reads envy and hatred in every
countenance about him, since he is conscious that he does not possess
the favor of his father and sovereign. From the queen, however, “born
under a milder sky,” whose nature is all gentleness, he expected pity.
Isabella is moved to the expression of sorrow for his misfortunes; his
joy in her sympathy is extreme, and in return he offers condolence
with her for her “hard lot,” which she repels with some confusion;
immediately after, hinting at the relation in which she stands to him,
she offers to intercede with the king in his behalf. Carlos declines
this offer, telling her she is the innocent cause of all his
sufferings, and reminds her of their former affection and engagement;
bitterly alluding to his father's hatred, and the greatest wrong he
has inflicted, in depriving him of his bride. Isabella reproves his
resentment against the king, whom she imagines deceived by false
counsellors, and refuses to listen to his passionate complaints; the
prince pleads with her to remain, and at length bids her renounce and
accuse him. Now comes the discovery. When Carlos calls himself guilty,
the queen says,

  “Art thou alone the guilty?”

This thoughtless exclamation betrays to the prince the state of her
heart; and shocked at her own indiscretion Isabella implores him to
leave her. He pleads that flight would not protect him from the
vengeance of Philip, who regards him with detestation, though ignorant
of his only fault. The queen departs, forbidding him to follow her,
and Perez enters. This person, a warm friend to the prince, attempts
to console his evident wretchedness, which he attributes to his
father's displeasure, by assuring him that the king has been wrought
upon by false rumors and the machinations of his enemies. His offers
of service and devoted attachment affect Carlos, who nevertheless will
not reveal the secret cause of his grief. He yields, however, to the
entreaties of Perez, to accept him as his friend, and permit him to
share his destiny; congratulating himself even in the midst of
wretchedness that he is less worthy of compassion than Philip on his
throne.

The next act introduces upon the scene the tyrant and arch-hypocrite,
attended by his minister Gomez. Their conversation illustrates
strikingly the haughty reserve of the king, who will not admit even
his private counsellor to his most secret thoughts, or treat him as an
equal.

  _Philip_. Gomez, what thing above all else in the world
            Dost thou esteem?

  _Gomez_.  Thy favor.

  _Philip_. Hopest thou to keep it? By what means?

  _Gomez_.  By the self-same means
            That first obtained it, sire; obedience,
            And silence.

  _Philip_. Thou to-day must practise both.

Gomez is commanded to watch the countenance and actions of the queen
in the interview about to take place. The crafty minister is
accustomed to observe, interpret, and silently execute his master's
will. Isabella enters, summoned by her lord, who expresses his wish
for her {703} advice in a matter pertaining to private relations as
well as to the concerns of state. He then speaks of his son, artfully
adapting his words to alarm and reassure her alternately.

  _Philip_.   Carlos, my son—thou lov'st
              Or hatest him.

  _Isabella_. My lord——

  _Philip_.   I understand.
              If to thy inclinations—not the voice
              Of virtue—thou didst listen, thou wouldst feel
              Thyself his——step-dame.

  _Isabella_. Nay, not so; the prince——

  _Philip_.   Is dear then to thee; virtue in thy heart
              So strongly dwells, that thou, the wife of Philip,
              The son of Philip lov'st with love—maternal.

  _Isabella_. Yours are the pattern of my thoughts; you love him;
              At least I do believe it; in like manner
              I also—love him.

The king expresses his wish to make her the judge of his son, who he
says has been guilty of a heinous offence. With cruel art he remarks
the agitation of the queen at this disclosure, which he pretends to
impute to indignation at a crime of which she is yet ignorant. He
brings an accusation against the prince of having leagued with rebels
to overthrow the power of his sovereign; silences the doubts Isabella
ventures to suggest, respecting the truth of the charge, and appeals
to her for his sentence. The queen seizes upon some artful expressions
of parental tenderness that fall from Philip, and implores him to
listen to the voice of nature; pleads eloquently the cause of Carlos,
and beseeches her husband to dismiss suspicion, and win back the
affections of his son by clemency and gentleness. Gomez is despatched
for the accused; the queen requests leave to retire, but is commanded
to remain. Carlos, on his entrance, demands to know of what fault he
has been guilty; the king speaks in an ambiguous manner, asserting his
acquaintance with the private thoughts of the prince, whom he
afterwards reproves for his communication with a leader of the rebels,
yet the monarch ostentatiously pardons him, telling him he owes his
impunity to the intercession of the queen, to whose counsel and
guidance he recommends him. They are dismissed; and the brief dialogue
between the king and his minister shows the result of their
investigations. The silent understanding and concert between them has
something in it more fearful than the most elaborate denunciation.

  _Philip_. Heard you?

  _Gomez_.  I heard.

  _Philip_. Saw you?

  _Gomez_.  I saw.

  _Philip_. Distraction!
            Suspicion then——

  _Gomez_.  Is certainty.

  _Philip_. And yet
            Philip is unrevenged?

  _Gomez_.  Think——

  _Philip_. I have thought;
            Follow you me.

  _Act II, Scene 5_.

In the third act Carlos acquaints Isabella with her imprudence, in
speaking in his favor to the tyrant, and the probable consequences of
addressing thus one whose mercy is but the pledge of evil. She cannot
however believe the king an unnatural father, but promises never to
repeat so perilous an effort. After her departure, Gomez enters and
announces the king. To his hypocritical offers of service, Carlos
deigns no reply, but leaves him without uttering a word. Philip, with
his nobles and ministers, then appears upon the stage; and having
ordered the doors to be closed, in a set speech, accuses his son of
treason and an attempt upon his life; produces the blade which he
states to have fallen at his feet when the baffled assassin fled from
him; and having played off a feigned reluctance to hear the
condemnation of the criminal, leaves the sentence to their decision.
Gomez, with affected sympathy for the sufferings of the father,
confirms the accusation of treason by producing intercepted letters
alleged to have been written by the prince, that prove a treacherous
correspondence with the French; while Leonardo completes the catalogue
of crimes by charging him with heresy, and hurling against him the
denunciations of the church. They are proceeding to adjudge him to
death, encouraged by Philip, who tells them they stand in the
presence, not of the father, but the king, when Perez craves
permission to speak, and boldly vindicates the innocence of his
friend. The king, in displeasure, breaks up the assembly; his anger at
the boldness of Perez is only equalled by his wonder that such a
spirit could exist in his court.

                     “Alma si fatta
   Nasce ov'io regno? e dov'io regno, ha vita?”

Carlos is afterwards surprised alone at night, by a body of soldiers,
led by his father. To the displeasure of Philip at finding him armed
at such an hour, he answers by submitting himself to the royal will.
The scene that ensues between father and son is terrible, and
powerfully depicts the native cruelty of the tyrant. He accuses the
youth of secret and atrocious designs—of attempted parricide.

  _Carlos_. Of parricide! What hear I? Parricide?
            Thyself canst not believe it. And what proof,
            What inference, what suspicion?

  _Philip_. Inference, proof
            And certainty, I from thy paleness draw.

  _Carlos_. Father! Oh, force me not, by fierce excess,
            That fearful bound to pass, which 'twixt the subject
            And sovereign—'twixt the father and the son,
            Heaven, nature, and the laws have placed!

  _Philip_. With foot
            Most sacrilegious thou hast passed already,
            Long since, that bound. What do I say? Unknown
            It ever was to thee. Lay by the words
            Of haughty virtue and severe; but ill
            Such words become thee. Speak now as thou art;
            Thy meditated treasons, and the many
            Already ripe, unveil. What dost thou fear?
            That I should be less great than thou art impious?
            If truth thou speak'st and nought dost hide, then hope!
            If aught thou dare conceal, then tremble!

  _Carlos_.                              Truth
            Severe thou forcest from me now. Myself
            Too well I know, to fear; and thee, oh Philip!
            Too well I know, to hope. The luckless gift,
            My life, take back; 'tis thine; but mine my honor,
            Which thou hadst never power to take nor give.
            Guilty I should be, if to such confession
            Base fear could lead me.
                                 Here my latest breath  {704}
            Thou may'st behold me draw; long, cruel death,
            And infamous prepare for me; no death
            Degrades me. Thou alone, sire—thou alone
            Wilt not weep tears of pity for my fate.

  _Philip_. Rash youth! thus to thy sovereign lord dost offer
            Excuse for all thy crimes?

  _Carlos_. Excuse? Thou hat'st me,
            That is mine only fault; thy thirst for blood
            Mine only crime. Thy right alone, O king,
            Is kingdom absolute.

  _Philip_. Ho—guards—arrest him!

  _Carlos_. Such is a tyrant's sole reply. These arms,
            Lo! to the chain I give—lo! to the steel
            I bare my breast. Wherefore delay? Dost now
            Begin to soften? Day by day thy reign
            Is written in black characters of blood.

  _Philip_. Bear him hence—from my sight. In the next tower,
            Unto the deepest dungeon. Wo to you
            If any of you show compassion to him.

  _Carlos_. Nay—fear not that. Thy ministers in cruelty
            Do equal thee.

  _Philip_. Drag him by force away;
            Forth from my presence.

  _Act IV, Scene 2_.

At the close of this appalling scene, Isabella enters in time to see
the prince dragged away by the guards. The king pretends, as before,
to attribute her emotion to fears for his own safety, and ironically
tells her to be comforted by the assurance that all danger to the
royal person is past; promising her that the traitor shall be visited
with summary punishment. The villain who would shed the blood of a
father, he suggests would not hesitate to take the life of a
step-mother. After this cruel hypocrisy, he leaves her to despair, and
she is joined by Gomez, who comes with offers of sympathy and
assistance. He brings the sentence of Carlos from the council, who
have adjudged him to death for an alleged attempt upon his father's
life; and the sentence only wants the king's signature. Gomez artfully
works upon her feelings; assures her that the prince's only fault is
his right to the crown, which Philip would bestow upon one of her
children. It is this, he says, that has caused the king's unnatural
hostility to his son. The crafty minister affects the warmest pity for
the unfortunate victim, and indignation for the cruelty of the
monarch. The queen, deceived by these representations, implores his
aid for the prince. Gomez answers that he will be too proud to accept
safety at his hands, or save himself by flight; and Isabella offers to
remove his scruples by a personal interview in the prison. The
minister covers the joy he feels at this proposal by an appeal to the
justice of heaven to protect the innocent.

The fifth act opens with a soliloquy of Carlos in the dungeon. He
wishes to die, but shrinks from the disgrace of an ignominious
execution, and dreads above all that the king should discover his
ill-fated attachment to the queen. The iron door opens, and Isabella
appears; she beseeches him to save himself from impending death.
Carlos, with a presentiment of despair, asks how she obtained access
to his prison. He believes her to have come with the knowledge of
Philip, and as a messenger of his vengeance.

  _Isabella_. Doth Philip know it? Heaven!
              Wo—if he did!

  _Carlos_.   What say'st thou? Philip here
              Knows all. Who dares to break his stern command?

  _Isabella_. Gomez.

  _Carlos_.   What do I hear? What fatal name,
              Fearful, detestable!

  _Isabella_.       He is no foe
              Of yours—as you may think——

  _Carlos_.       If I could ever
              Believe he was my friend more shame would kindle
              My cheek than e'er did wrath.

  _Isabella_.       Yet he alone
              Feels pity now for you. 'Twas he revealed
              The king's atrocious plot to me.

  _Carlos_.           Incautious!
              Alas, too credulous, what hast thou done?
              Why give to such compassion faith? If truth
              He uttered—he—most impious minister
              Of the most impious king—'twas with the truth
              To cheat thee!

  _Act V, Scene 2_.

Both are now in the tyrant's power; as a last resort, the prince
beseeches Isabella to begone from his dangerous presence.

  _Carlos_.   Away—if life be dear——

  _Isabella_. To me—life dear?

  _Carlos_.   My honor then—thy fame! * * Go—hide thy tears;
              Smother thy sighs in thine own breast; with eye
              Unmoistened, with intrepid front, must thou
              The tidings of my death receive.

It is too late; Philip enters, and scornfully upbraids them with their
mutual love, which they have vainly thought to conceal from his
discernment. He has long known it, but has suffered them to remain in
their delusion, that his revenge might more readily overtake them, and
now comes to rejoice in their last sufferings. The monster asserts
what is evident throughout, that his jealousy is not the object of
love, but of pride.

                       “Thou hast offended
  In me thy sovereign king—and not thy lover;
  The sacred name of Philip's wife hast stained.”

The unhappy pair vindicate their innocence, and excuse the attachment
which was honorable and proper before their forced separation. The
haughty tone that Isabella assumes contrasts strongly with her
previous submission, and shows that she has lost all hope. Gomez then
appears with a dagger and a cup of poison, which the king offers to
the choice of the lovers. Carlos chooses the dagger, yet reeking with
the blood of Perez, and stabs himself; but counsels the queen, who he
knows has said too much to hope for safety, to drink the poison, as a
less painful death. Isabella prepares to follow; but Philip,
perceiving that she rejoices in the prospect of death, bestows life
upon her as a punishment; she will not accept the cruel gift, but
snatching his dagger from his girdle, plunges it into her side, and
dies asserting her innocence.

The last words of the monster who witnesses the horrid scene intimate
something like remorse.

  “Lo, full and fearful vengeance I obtain;
   Yet am I happy? Gomez, be concealed
   The dire event from all. By silence thou
   Shalt save my fame, thy life.”

Before making any remarks upon this powerful play, we shall proceed to
analyze the corresponding production of Schiller, in order to present
the two pieces in as {705} close proximity as possible. In _Don
Carlos_, we are transported at once into the Spanish court, and the
tragedy has all the aids and appliances which a graphic delineation of
the manners of the age and country can give. We have no “voices in the
desert;” all around reminds us that we are among the ministers and
courtiers of a despotic monarch; there are the pomp and circumstance
of sovereign state; the jealousies, the repinings, the fears and the
plots of selfish and intriguing courtiers; the designs and labors of
patriotic enthusiasm and of less disinterested feelings, and the
contrast of innocence and unsuspicious credulity with artful malice.
The piece opens with an interview between the prince and the king's
confessor Domingo, which takes place in the royal garden at Aranjuez.
The priest artfully endeavors to learn the cause of the evident
melancholy cherished by Don Carlos. For this purpose, he alludes to
the queen, and the sorrow which the depression of her son-in-law has
occasioned her. The prince, with artifice of which he seems afterwards
ashamed, replies by accusing her of having cost him the affection of
his father; but Domingo cannot believe in his dislike.

  “You mock me, prince. All Spain
   Adores her queen. Can you with eye of hate
   Behold what all esteem? * *
     The loveliest woman in the world, a queen—
   And once your bride. Impossible, my prince!
   It cannot be! No—no. Where all men love
   Can Carlos never hate; you cannot thus
   Strangely gainsay yourself. Be sure the queen
   Knows not how much she hath her son displeased;
   'Twould be a grief to her.”

He goes on to assure the heir of her interest for him; and relates an
incident that occurred at a tournament, in which her fears for his
safety were involuntarily betrayed. Carlos haughtily replies:

             “I much admire
  The king's gay confidant, so aptly versed
  In tales of curious wit.”

and adds in a more serious tone,

  “Ever I've heard it said, the spy on looks,
   And he who treasures tales, hath done more ill
   In this wide world, than in the murderer's hand
   The dagger or the poisoned cup. Your trouble,
   Good sir, you might have spared; if thanks you wait,
   Hence to the king.”

After the intimation of his suspicion that the confessor is placed as
a spy upon him by the king, he is relieved of the presence of Domingo,
and the Marquis of Posa enters. This personage, who plays a
conspicuous part in the drama, and is in fact the hero of the piece,
is a political enthusiast, whose whole soul is devoted to the
attainment of a favorite object, to which all his efforts and
intrigues have an ultimate tendency. The skill with which he lays his
plans, and the metaphysical subtlety with which they are carried on,
even to the delusion of the vigilant Philip, are developed in the
course of the tragedy; but it is proper to give this insight into his
character at first, to avoid the imputation of inconsistency and
folly, which would otherwise rest for a time upon his actions in the
mind of the reader. The delight of Carlos at again embracing his
friend just returned from a tour through Europe, is so excessive that
the marquis himself reproves his boyish weakness, which the prince
excuses by expressing his utter misery. In this and the other extracts
we are obliged to use our own translation, having never met with an
English version of the play. Carlos answers to the generous
suggestions of his friend.

                    Thou speak'st of time long past; I also once
                    Dreamed of a prince of Spain, in whose proud cheek
                    The fiery blood would mount, if one did speak
                    Of Liberty!—yet he is long since buried.
                    Whom thou seest here—he is no more the Carlos
                    Who in Alkala took his leave of thee,
                    Who with the sweet and glorious vision burned.
                    Creator of a new and golden age
                    For Spain to be; Oh, the design was simple,
                    Yet godlike still! Past is that dream!

  _Marquis de Posa_.                              A dream!
                    Prince—Was it but a dream?

  _Carlos_.                              Nay—let me weep;
                    Weep on thy breast hot tears—mine only friend!
                    I have none—none—in the wide full earth none;
                    Far as my father's regal sceptre reaches,
                    Far as the seaward breeze our flag sends forth,
                    There is no place—not one—where I may pour
                    My bitter tears, but this. O Roderick,
                    By all that thou and I may hope in heaven
                    Of future rest—drive me not hence!

  _Act I, Scene 2_.

With pathetic earnestness the desolate prince reminds the marquis of
the days of their boyhood and their affection; relates an instance of
his own devotion to him, when he bore the punishment of some juvenile
offence committed by Posa, and resented by the king. The marquis
sympathizes but coldly with these emotions; his mind is occupied with
thoughts too high and momentous to find pleasure in the recollections
of childhood. He would pay the debt of kindness, however, in manlier
coin. The prince, in explanation of his previous agitation, and his
long cherished grief, confesses his love for the queen his
step-mother, and his eager wish for an interview with her without the
presence of malicious spectators. His friend, after exacting from him
a promise to undertake nothing without his knowledge and sanction,
engages to help him to a private audience. It is no part of the design
of Posa to discourage this unfortunate attachment, so long as he
fancies it can be made subservient to the accomplishment of his
schemes.

The next scene introduces us into the retirement of the queen.
Elizabeth of Valois, the wife of Philip, is surrounded by her ladies,
who converse upon their anticipated return to Madrid, and the sports
and festivals that wait to welcome the royal pair. These are savage as
the temper of the age; and the delight in anticipation displayed by
some of the noble dames calls for the mild reprehension of the gentle
queen. A better subject for discussion is offered in the approaching
marriage of the princess of Eboli, one of the ladies, to a nobleman of
Spain. The queen, with playful grace, inquires his merits of the
destined bride, but is surprised when the latter, in a passion of
tears, throws herself at her feet, and beseeches that she may be saved
from such a sacrifice. Elizabeth promises her liberty, then dismisses
the subject with an abruptness that shows unpleasing remembrances are
awakened in her mind, and asks for her daughter the Infanta Clara, a
child of three years old. The Duchess of Olivarez, who holds {706}
supremacy over the other ladies, suggests that it is not yet the hour
to admit the child to her mother's presence; and immediately after, a
page announces the Marquis of Posa, as having arrived from the
Netherlands, and waiting to present a letter to her majesty. The lady
of Olivarez objects to his admission at such a time and place, as a
violation of court etiquette, but is overruled by the queen, who
commands the entrance of the marquis, and permits her scrupulous
governess to retire. The noble knight is most graciously received; and
in the course of conversation takes occasion to relate a story bearing
much resemblance to the queen's own history—of a lady betrothed to a
prince who was afterwards supplanted by his uncle. Both Elizabeth and
the princess of Eboli are much interested in the narration; the former
then sends Eboli to fetch her daughter; the marquis seizes the
occasion to request leave to introduce his friend into the presence.
Carlos enters, and kneeling, kisses the hand of his mother-in-law: the
marquis and ladies retire out of sight. The scene that ensues is
admirable; the passionate sorrow and devotion of the prince, and the
dignity and inexorable virtue of the youthful queen, are beautifully
pictured. We cannot perceive that she cherishes a single emotion
towards Carlos, at variance with her duty to her royal husband. She
appeals to his manhood and heroic spirit to conquer his ill-fated
passion; “Elizabeth,” she says, “was your first love; let your second
be Spain.” He promises silence if not forgetfulness, and the Marquis
of Posa suddenly rushes in, announces the king, and leads his friend
hastily away. Philip enters with several of his nobles, and asks why
he finds his wife alone. The marchioness of Mondekar, who comes up at
this juncture, and attempts to divert the displeasure of the
sovereign, is dismissed by him from the court, and banished from
Madrid for ten years. The queen, indignant at the suspicions cast upon
herself, and the treatment of her domestic, evades a reply to the
king's questions, and bids the marchioness a weeping adieu, giving her
her girdle as a token of favor and remembrance. Philip utters a half
apology for his harshness, by expressing his anxiety to be without the
shadow of a rival in his wife's affections.

                       I am called
  The richest man in Christendom; the sun
  Goes never down on my domain; yet all
  Another once possessed, and after me
  Full many a monarch shall possess. One thing
  Is all mine own. What the king has, belongs
  To fortune—but Elizabeth to Philip.

He afterwards incidentally inquires of the courtiers after his son,
and enjoins it upon them to watch his movements. The Duke of Alba
willingly undertakes the task, boasting himself to be to the throne of
Spain what the cherub was to the gate of Paradise. After this
high-flown simile, Count Lerma ventures to speak in favor of the
prince, but is silenced by Philip, who then departs, accompanied by
the queen and his train. Carlos and Posa return; the former declares
his resolution to ask of his father the government of Flanders, which
he hopes to obtain by his solicitations, and thereby escape from the
temptations continually presented during his residence in the court.
He means to make a last appeal to parental feeling in the bosom of the
king, and hopes to regain the confidence and affection so long lost.
Posa expresses the most enthusiastic approbation of his purpose, and
they pledge inviolable friendship. The prince has a just appreciation
of the noble and disinterested character of his friend, and values his
esteem beyond aught in the world.

In the second act Carlos seeks the king, and implores a private
audience. The Duke of Alba is in presence, and is excessively
reluctant to depart; nor is it without displeasure that Philip, at the
repeated solicitations of his son, sends him away. The prince, alone
with his father, lays open his heart; implores forgiveness for his
offences, and expresses in the most ardent language, his dutiful
affection and desire for a perfect reconciliation. Upon the
machinations of designing courtiers, he charges the fault of the
breach that has so long existed between them; pleads that he will do
for good will the service his corrupted ministers do for their own
interests; that a purer fount of love than gold can purchase, swells
in the heart of Philip's son. The king is not unmoved by this generous
abandonment, but coldly answers that those he traduces are his proved
servants. With increasing earnestness Carlos appeals to the parental
feelings of his father; and the following picture of happiness
succeeds the startled admission of Philip that he is alone upon a
throne.

  You have been so, my lord. Hate me no more,
  And I will love you with a duteous love
  And ardent; but oh, hate me not; How lovely,
  How sweet it is, in a fair soul, to feel
  Ourselves as holy things enshrined; to know
  Our happiness another cheek doth kindle,
  Our trouble doth another bosom swell,
  Our sorrow fill with tears another's eyes.
  How sweet and glorious is it, hand in hand,
  With a beloved and duteous son, once more
  To tread the rose-strewed path of early youth!
  To dream again life's dream of pleasure o'er!
  How sweet and blessed in your children's virtue,
  Immortal, ever present to endure,
  The benefactor of a century!
  How fair to plant, what a beloved offspring
  One day shall reap; to sow what shall make glad
  Their future fields; to anticipate the joy,
  The gratitude which they shall feel! My father,
  Your priest is wisely silent of this Eden
  On Earth!

Carlos then offers his petition that he may have the command of the
army appointed to quell the insurrection in Brabant. He hopes much
from the attachment of the Netherlands to him, and reasonably
anticipates that his appearance in person, his dignity as crown
prince, and the course of mildness and forbearance he proposes to
pursue, may bring them back to their allegiance. The king intimates
gloomily his suspicion that treacherous designs against his life are
concealed under the philanthropic zeal of his son; Carlos is
horror-struck and deeply wounded at the insinuation, but withdraws not
his prayer, pressing it more earnestly again and again, in spite of
the rising displeasure of the monarch. Philip haughtily and decisively
rejects his suit, having bestowed the command upon Alba, and commands
the mortified prince to remain in Spain; Carlos leaves the audience
chamber, and the Duke of Alba entering receives the royal orders to
prepare for his immediate departure to Brussels, to take his leave of
the queen {707} and the prince. The cautious courtier observes the
emotion yet visible on the countenance of his master, and asks if it
is caused by the subject of his conference with his son. Philip merely
tells him the subject of their conversation was Duke Alba; and thus
alarming his fears bids him seek a reconciliation with the prince,
hinting darkly his doubts of the honesty and candor of the noble duke,
who, troubled at this intimation, departs disconcerted.

The next scene takes place in an ante-chamber to the queen's
apartment. Carlos is in conference with a page belonging to the queen,
who has privately brought him a letter and a key. In a tumult of
contending feelings, the prince breaks the seal, and at the same
moment duke Alba crosses to the inner chamber. The letter is in a
female hand, and appoints a meeting in a cabinet attached to her
majesty's apartments, safe from intrusion, where the writer promises
that “the reward of love” shall be bestowed. Carlos is ignorant of the
queen's hand writing, but does not for a moment imagine the letter to
be from any other than herself. In this supposition he is confirmed by
the page, whom he knows to belong to Elizabeth, and who replies to his
eager questions that the letter was given him by “her own hand.” The
possessor of the hand is not named by either—and hence arises the
mistake. The surprise and agitation of the prince are extreme; yet in
the bitterness of a spirit wounded by unkindness, he does not hesitate
to accept the bliss he fancies offered to him. Before he can escape
from the ante-chamber, Alba enters and requests a conference. A long
interview follows, which at length, in spite of the studied calmness
of the duke, terminates in a dispute; both draw their swords, but are
interrupted by the queen, who rushes from her chamber. The effect of
her appearance is instantaneous; Carlos at a word of remonstrance from
her, drops his sword, and embracing Alba asks his forgiveness. The
queen, accompanied by the duke, returns into her closet.

We are next introduced into a cabinet, where the Princess of Eboli,
fancifully dressed, is playing on the lute. She is enamored of the
prince, and is anxiously awaiting the return of the messenger, by whom
she despatched her letter. The page of the preceding scene appears—she
starts up and hastily questions him; he relates the words and the
emotion of the prince on the reception of the billet, and informs her
that he may be momentarily expected. The boy is dismissed, and Carlos
enters the cabinet by means of the key conveyed to him by the page.
His surprise at finding himself alone with the princess of Eboli, his
embarrassment, and efforts to explain his apparently unexpected
appearance, are almost amusing. The graceful and animated conversation
of the lady does much to remove the first awkwardness of his mistake,
and he becomes insensibly interested, though quite unable to account
for the apparent pleasure with which his fancied intrusion is
received. The princess informs him of the king's design to bestow her
hand upon Don Ruy Gomez, Count of Silva, and of her aversion to the
match; and wishes to be guided by his counsel, which she asks as from
a dear friend. Her sentiments on love excite the admiration of the
prince, who nevertheless seems marvellously ignorant of the drift of
all her intimations.

  _Princess of Eboli_. Love is alone the price of love. It is
                       The invaluable diamond, which I give
                       Freely away—or else, forever hid,
                       Must bury—like the noble-hearted merchant
                       Who all unmoved by the Rialto's gold,
                       Or king's displeasure, to the mighty sea
                       Gave back his pearl, too proud to part with it
                       Below its price!

Again she fancifully styles the passion, or rather the charms which
awaken it, “the sister hues of one divine beam—the leaves upon one
lovely flower.” The prince is enchanted with her wit and beauty, and
the crisis approaches.

  _Princess of Eboli_. Long since had I departed from this court,
                       And from the world departed; buried me
                       Within the cloister's walls, but that one tie
                       Still held me back—one tie, that to the world
                       Binds me with force resistless. Ah! perchance
                       A phantom! yet so dear to me! I love;
                       And I am——not beloved.

  _Carlos_.                  You are—you are!
                       Truly as God doth dwell in Heaven. I swear it—
                       You are—unspeakably.

  _Princess of Eboli_. And dost thou swear it!
                       That was indeed mine angel's voice! Yes—yes!
                       If thou dost swear it—Carlos—then indeed
                       Do I believe——I am!

This avowal on the lady's part is understood; but the prince—though he
opens his arms to receive her when in the transport of affection she
throws herself into them—has no idea of returning in coin the love so
unexpectedly offered to him. A sudden thought has struck him; it is no
less than to make the enamored princess a confidant of his attachment
to his mother-in-law. He does not dream of the existence of such a
thing as feminine jealousy; but is proceeding, in accordance with his
mad design, to acquaint her with his love for another, when she
suddenly interrupts his communication by her exclamations of horror
and surprise. The truth flashes upon her mind; and in an agony of
shame she demands her key and letters. She had a few moments before
shown him a letter to her from the king, which he retains in his
possession. Carlos refuses to give up the letters, and leaves her to
mortification and regret. Reasoning upon what she has seen and heard,
she conjectures that the queen is her fortunate rival; nor can she
imagine the love of the prince unreturned by its object, however
elevated and passionless her royal mistress has hitherto appeared.

In the mean time, Duke Alba and Domingo are in conference. Alba
relates his meeting and dispute with Carlos, the sudden change in his
conduct at a glance from the queen, and his altered demeanor towards
him. The cautious priest replies that he has long suspected the
attachment hinted at, but uttered no suspicions so long as proof was
wanting. Another incident is mentioned by the Duke; he had observed
the countenance of the prince when he left his father,—it was sad and
overcast, but in the queen's ante-room, mantled with an expression of
triumphant joy. He had even expressed satisfaction at the appointment
of Alba to the command of the army to the Netherlands. The Duke
himself is disposed to consider this appointment more of a banishment
than a mark of favor. The two artful courtiers arrange a plot for the
ruin of the prince, who {708} is hateful to both on account of his
independent spirit, and dreaded by reason of his right to the crown.
Both agree that the suspicions of the king must be awakened; but to
the fulfilment of their plans there wants one ally, the Princess of
Eboli, who is beloved by the king. At this moment she appears; Alba
retires, and she directs the priest, who had been the bearer of the
king's letter to her, to signify to Philip her readiness to receive
him. Her insinuations against the honor of the queen, and vows that
she will expose her to the wrath of her husband, are answered with joy
by Domingo, who calls the Duke to confirm their league. It is agreed
that the princess shall first accuse the queen; as her majesty's
companion and confidant her testimony will be accepted. Domingo
suggests ingenious means of proof, and Alba mentions the page he had
seen in close conversation with Carlos; but Eboli, alarmed, diverts
their suspicion by hastily assuring them that no weight is to be
attached to such evidence.

Scene fourteenth exhibits Carlos in a remote monastery with a Prior,
with whom he awaits the arrival of the Marquis of Posa. The Prior
retires, and the prince relates to his friend the ill success of his
petition, and his further alienation from the king. He tells him also
of the mysterious summons, and his interview with the lady of Eboli;
shows the king's love-letter to her, and exulting, asserts that such a
document is sufficient to free the queen from her matrimonial
obligations. Posa warns him against the arts of the princess, and
unfolds her character; reasons against the blind passion which still
rages in the bosom of the prince, arouses his sense of shame, rebukes
him for his madness, and overwhelms him with the consciousness of
guilt. He obtains possession of the letter, and having listened to the
expressions of remorse and warm trust in him, which fall from the lips
of his repentant friend, rewards him by permitting him to seek an
audience with Elizabeth. The zealous politician perceives that the
only way to lead the prince to the fulfilment of his far-reaching
designs, is to take advantage of the queen's influence over him.

The third act opens in the king's sleeping chamber. Philip is alone; a
table, with a burning lamp, is near him, on which he leans in deep
thought, gazing upon a letter and a medallion lying before him. These
have been taken recently from a casket belonging to the queen, and
sent as proof of her guilt to the jealous sovereign, whose first words
show that the poison is working. He calls Count Lerma from the
adjoining chamber, and addresses him; but the unsuspicious old man
cannot comprehend the mysterious hints of the agitated monarch.

  _Count Lerma_. My greatest—my best king——

  _Philip_.            King—only king!
                 And ever king! No better answer this
                 Than the dull solemn cavern's empty echo!
                 Upon this rock I strike, and will have water—
                 Water, to quench my burning fever's thirst—
                 He gives me glowing gold!

Lerma is dismissed and Duke Alba summoned; the letter is shown to him,
and he says he recognizes the prince's hand writing; encouraged to
speak freely, he mentions the fact of the presence of Carlos with the
queen in the garden at Aranjuez. After this information the king
suddenly changes his manner; haughtily dismisses the duke, and calls
his confessor. Domingo's evidence is in substance the same with that
of his fellow conspirator, but his doubts are more cautiously and
artfully expressed. Having heard him through, Philip recalls Alba, and
charges both with a plot for the destruction of his son: alluding to
Alba's hostility, he remarks—

  How gladly would the innocent man now arm
  His petty spite with my wrath's giant arm!
  I am the bow, ye think in your wild fancies,
  That may be bent for service at your will!
  Yet have I mine own pleasure, &c.

After reflection, the king declares his intention to command a public
trial of the queen, and reminding them that her doom will be death if
found guilty—asks if they, as her accusers, will embrace the
alternative, and submit to the same sentence, if she is proved
innocent. Duke Alba consents to support his charge on these terms, and
is ordered to wait further commands in the audience chamber.

In the hall of audience are assembled the prince and grandees of
Spain, waiting the arrival of the sovereign. Medina Sidonia, the
admiral, has just returned from an unsuccessful expedition.

  _Medina Sidonia_. I lost him a brave fleet
                    Such as ne'er yet did crown the seas. What is
                    A head like this, against full seventy,
                    Seventy sunken gallies! But, my prince,
                    Five sons I lost—hopeful as you—that breaks
                    My heart——

The unfortunate commander has sealed his own doom in the opinion of
those around him; for none are ignorant that there is a cloud on the
royal brow. The admiral would rather face English cannon than the
displeasure of his master, but is comforted by Carlos, who exhorts him
to hope the best from the king's grace and his own innocence. When he
kneels to relate his misfortunes to Philip, he is graciously pardoned
for the faults of storms and rocks, and welcomed to Madrid. The king
then inquires the reason of the absence of the Marquis of Posa, who
has failed to pay his duty at the feet of his sovereign since his
return from his journey. The Count Lerma, Duke Alba and the Duke of
Feria in turn praise the Marquis, and relate the noble deeds he has
accomplished.

  _Philip_. I am amazed. And what must be the man
            Hath done all this, yet among three, thus questioned,
            Hath not a single foe? Be sure, this man
            Must have a character most singular,
            Or none at all; if but to wonder at,
            I must speak with him.
            (_to Duke Alba_)      After mass is heard,
            Conduct him to my cabinet.

The boldness and dignity displayed by the Marquis in the subsequent
interview with the king, develop his character, and unfold the project
to which he had devoted his life. Bent on the accomplishment of his
object, the deliverance of the Netherlands from oppression, he
hesitates not to condemn Philip's policy in the government of his
distant provinces. The king seems not displeased at his boldness, and
from grave remonstrance the enthusiast soon passes to the most
impassioned pleading. With earnest eloquence he paints the spirit of
independence that is abroad, and warns the monarch not to oppose his
will to this growing power.

  _Marquis_. You hope to end, as you have now begun!  {709}
             Hope to retard the change o'er Christendom
             Already ripe—the universal spring,
             The world to bring again to pristine childhood.
             You will, alone throughout all Europe, throw
             Yourself against the wheel of a world's fate,
             Which unimpeded in full course doth roll.

Again,

             You, who would fain plant for eternity,
             Sow death! A work thus forced can ne'er endure
             Beyond its maker's breath!

Although the king listens without anger to such declamation, he soon
after coldly dismisses the subject, and expressing a wish to engage
the disinterested Posa in his service, sounds him upon the subject of
Carlos and the queen. The Marquis is silent at Philip's first allusion
to his domestic troubles.

  _King_.                    I understand you.
                     Yet if among all fathers I must be
                     The most unhappy—as a husband, may I not
                     Call myself blest?

  _Marquis of Posa_. If the possession of
                     A hopeful son, a wife most virtuous,
                     Can give a mortal right to be thus deemed,
                     You are most blest in both.

  _King_.                    No—I am not!
                     And that I am not—have I never felt
                     So deeply as even now!

  _Marquis of Posa_. The prince is noble
                     And good. I never found him otherwise.

  _King_.            But I have. What he hath despoiled me of,
                     No sceptre can restore—a noble queen——

  _Marquis of Posa_. Who dares to say so, Sire?

  _King_.                     Who? Calumny!
                     The world! Myself! Here lie the proofs that both
                     Condemn, incontrovertibly—and others
                     Are close at hand, which make me fear the worst.
                     Yet, Marquis, it is sad if I believe
                     Only one side! Who is't accuses her?
                     If _she_ could e'er be thought to stoop so low,
                     So deeply to imbrue her soul in crime,
                     How readily may I believe, in sooth,
                     An Eboli can slander!—And the priest,
                     Doth he not hate my son—and her? Duke Alba—
                     Know I not that he meditates revenge?
                     My wife is worth them all.

                     *       *       *       *       *

                     To fall into such crime, as they do charge
                     Upon the queen, costs much. So easily,
                     As they would fain persuade me, is not broken
                     The holy tie of honor. Men I know,
                     Marquis—and such a man I long have lacked.
                     You are noble and free-hearted—know mankind—
                     And therefore have I chosen you.

  _Marquis of Posa_. Me—Sire?

  _King_.            You stand before your lord—and yet have nought—
                     Nought for yourself to beg. That's new to me.
                     You shall be just; emotion from your glance
                     Can ne'er conceal itself. Watch well my son:
                     Search the queen's heart. I will permission give
                         you
                     To speak with her in private. Leave me now.

  _Act III, Scene 10_.

Posa takes advantage of this permission speedily to demand an audience
of the queen. Act fourth opens in her apartment, where she welcomes to
her presence the princess of Eboli, who has been for some days
indisposed. Agitated from the consciousness of guilt, the unhappy girl
implores leave to retire, and passes out as the Marquis enters,
bearing as he alleges a message from the king. At his special request,
the ladies withdraw; and not noticing the extreme surprise of
Elizabeth at seeing him employed as a royal messenger, he proceeds to
the real object of his visit—warns her of danger, and gives her a
letter from Carlos, imploring an interview. Posa warmly seconds this
request, and overcomes the queen's scruples by assuring her that the
measure is necessary, not only to the private happiness of the prince,
but to the weal of the state. The liberty of Flanders is sacrificed;
and Alba's appointment as leader of the royal army has struck a death
blow to the hopes of the people. But one way remains to prevent the
destruction impending over those provinces, and their loss by the
Spanish crown; it must be undertaken by the prince—who must be
persuaded to the enterprise by her.

  _Marquis of Posa_.         He must
                     Be disobedient to the royal will,
                     Must privately betake himself to Brussels;
                     With open arms the Flemings there await him.
                     The Netherlands will to his standard throng,
                     A good thing is made strong by the alliance
                     Of a king's son. He makes the Spanish throne
                     Tremble before his arms. That which the king
                     Refused in Madrid, he constrained will grant
                     In Brussels.

After some hesitation, the queen consents to what she imagines a
measure of necessity, and writes a few lines to Carlos, recommending
him to follow the advice of the Marquis. Their interview is ended by
the appearance of the Duchess of Olivarez.

Meanwhile Count Lerma, with good intent, but injudicious zeal, warns
Carlos against the Marquis of Posa; acquaints him with his long
audience and close confidence with the king; and mentions that he
heard from the door his own name and Elizabeth's uttered. The prince
thanks him for his caution, which excites in his bosom no distrust of
his friend, as is proved by their subsequent interview. Posa gives him
the queen's note, then asks for it, as it is more safe in his custody.
With evident reluctance, Carlos confides the precious paper to his
hands, than as if ashamed of his suspicion, throws himself trembling
with agitation upon his neck.

The next scene is in the royal cabinet, when Philip is alone with the
Infanta, his daughter. The medallion and letter are before him; he has
thrown the former in a transport of jealousy upon the floor. The queen
enters and throws herself at his feet, strongly agitated, demanding
justice against the felon who has robbed her casket. The offender, she
suggests, must be of rank, for a pearl and diamond of immense value
were left untouched, and only a letter and medallion taken away. To
the king's stern questions she answers without hesitation, that both
were gifts from the prince, sent before her marriage with the king.
Her openness and unevasive answers convey to the mind of the reader
the most perfect conviction of her entire innocence; the slightest
wavering or shadow of fear would have marred all. The child finds the
medallion on the floor and brings it to her mother; who then in a
strain of beautiful remonstrance rebukes the king for his unjust
suspicions {710} and unfair trial of her. Philip acknowledges that the
casket was opened at his command, and haughtily asks if she has never
deceived him, reminding her of the scene in the garden at Aranjuez.
The queen candidly confesses her disingenuous evasion of his inquiries
at that time; but excuses herself by charging her lord with
unwarrantable harshness of manner, before her domestics. She would not
be judged then as a culprit before the assembled courtiers, and
therefore suffered him to suppose she had been alone. She censures
also his cruel injustice towards his son, and avows the warmest esteem
for the prince, who had once been her affianced husband. As a near
relative, and one who has borne a name yet nearer, tenderness is due
to him. As might be expected the king reproves this unusual boldness;
becoming more violent he pushes the child away; the queen, offended at
his invectives, takes her daughter by the hand, and with dignified
composure walks to the door of the cabinet. She can proceed no
further, but overcome by her feelings falls in a swoon on the
threshold; the alarm is given; she is carried to her apartment by her
women, but not till the news of so ominous an incident is spread
through the court. Philip dismisses his courtiers, but welcomes
eagerly the Marquis of Posa, who demands a private audience, and gives
the king a pocket-book, which he says he took from the prince's
chamber. Among the papers it contains, is the letter from the princess
of Eboli to Carlos; at sight of this paper a light flashes upon the
mind of the king, who perceives her motive for traducing her mistress.
The Marquis receives permission to control the movements of the
prince, and a full warrant for his arrest and imprisonment, should he
at any time deem such a measure necessary.

In the gallery Carlos meets again the boding Count Lerma. The old man
describes his pocket-book, of blue velvet wrought with gold, and tells
him he saw it in the king's hand, while Posa stood beside him, and
received the royal thanks for “the discovery.” The prince cannot
disbelieve a story so well attested, but fears not for himself; his
whole soul is bent to secure the safety of the queen, which he
conceives endangered by the unfortunate note sent to him by Posa, that
was in the pocket-book when he gave it to the Marquis. It is a
beautiful trait in the character of this youth, that under no
circumstances does it enter his head to doubt the nobleness of his
friend. Even in the face of this damning evidence, his only
exclamation is, “I have lost him!” He knows the Marquis to be actuated
by motives higher than those affecting the private safety or happiness
of any man in the realm; and if he imagines that he is to be offered
up for the good of a nation, he thinks not of charging with treachery
or cruelty the man who, he is convinced, is impelled by necessity to
the course he pursues.

Duke Alba and Domingo, burning with envy and jealousy towards Posa,
repair to the queen, and warn her against him. She receives their
protestations of loyal devotion with haughty coldness.

  _Queen_.   Most worthy sir, and you, my noble Duke,
             You do surprise me, truly. Such devotion
             From the Duke Alba—from Domingo—sooth,
             I ne'er expected. And I know full well
             How I must value it. You speak of plots
             Which threaten me—may I inquire——

  _Alba_.          We pray you
             Look well unto the lord of Posa, he,
             Private commission from his Majesty
             Who holds.

  _Queen_.   I hear with pleasure, sirs, unmixed,
             The king hath chosen so well. I long have heard
             The Marquis, as a noble knight, reported—
             As a great man. Never was royal favor—
             The highest grace—more righteously bestowed.

  _Domingo_. More righteously bestowed? Nay—we know better.

We are next introduced to the apartment of the princess of Eboli. The
repentant lady is surprised by Carlos, who in despair of assistance
from any other source, comes to beseech her, by her past tenderness
for him, to help him to an audience with his mother. In her extreme
surprise and confusion, she scarcely comprehends his request; they are
interrupted by the Marquis of Posa, followed by two officers of the
guard. Displaying the royal warrant, he arrests Carlos, and hurries
him away before he has time to utter another word; then endeavors to
learn from the lady how much he has already communicated. He holds a
dagger to her breast, threatening to murder her if she will not
disclose the secret; then struck by a sudden thought, releases her.
Eboli rushes to the queen's presence and falls at the feet of her
mistress, to announce the prince's arrest by the Marquis.

  _Queen_.             Now, God be praised, it was by Posa's hand
                       He was made prisoner.

  _Princess of Eboli_. And say you that
                       So calmly, queen? So coldly? Righteous Heaven!
                       You think not—Oh! you know not——

  _Queen_.                     Wherefore he's
                       A prisoner? For some error, I suppose,
                       Which to the headlong character of youth
                       Was natural.

  _Princess of Eboli_. Oh no—no! I know better!
                       O queen! An infamous, a devilish deed!
                       For him there is no safety more! He dies!

  _Queen_.             He dies?

  _Princess of Eboli_. And I—I am his murderess!

  _Queen_.             He dies? Insane—consider you.

  _Princess of Eboli_.       And wherefore,
                       Wherefore dies he? Oh, could I but have known
                       That it would come to this!

  _Queen_.             (_taking her hand_.) Princess, your senses
                       Have quite forsaken you. Collect your spirits,
                       Compose yourself—that without looks of horror
                       That so affright me, you may tell me all.
                       What know you? What has happened?

  _Princess of Eboli_. Oh, not thus,
                       Not with such heavenly condescension—not
                       So graciously—my mistress! Flames of hell
                       Rage in this conscious breast. I am not worthy
                       To raise my look profane up to that summit
                       Of purity and glory. Crush, oh, crush
                       The wretch who at your feet lies bowed by
                           shame,
                       Repentance—self-abhorrence!

  _Queen_.                     Unhappy girl,
                       What have you to confess?

  _Princess of Eboli_.     Angel of light!
                       Pure being! Yet you know not—you suspect not
                       The demon whom you smile upon so sweetly. {711}
                       Now learn to know him. I—I was the felon
                       Who robbed your casket.

  _Queen_.             You?

  _Princess of Eboli_. And who delivered
                       That letter to the king.

  _Queen_.             You?

  _Princess of Eboli_. And who dared
                       Accuse you.

  _Queen_.             You—you could——

  _Princess of Eboli_. Revenge—love—madness—
                       I hated you—I loved the prince.

  _Queen_.             You loved him?

  _Princess of Eboli_. I told him of my passion—and I found
                       No answering love.

  _Queen_.             (_after a pause_) Oh now—is all unriddled!
                       Stand up: you loved him—I forgive you all—
                       All is forgotten now; arise! (_takes her by the
                           arm_.)

  _Princess of Eboli_.     No—no!
                       A horrible confession yet remains.
                       Not yet, great queen!

After the disclosure which ensues, the queen, in silence, retires to
her closet. She can forgive duplicity and malice towards herself, but
her nature revolts from such infamy as is revealed to her. The Duchess
of Olivarez enters from the closet, and demands from the prostrate
princess her cross and key; she delivers them up, listens a few
moments in vain for the queen's return, then despairing, rushes out.

In the presence of Elizabeth, the Marquis of Posa speaks in a tone of
the greatest despondency, announcing the loss of the game in which he
had staked his life. Yet he quiets her apprehensions on the prince's
account; the cause demanded one victim, and he has devoted himself.
With melancholy presentiment of his own approaching fate, he commits
his friend to the queen, whom he beseeches to regard him with
unalterable affection, that he may yet fulfil the high destiny
reserved for him and be a benefactor to his people.

In the mean time the king's ante-room is crowded by the nobles of
Spain, and the royal ministers, waiting to see the monarch, who has
forbid all access to his person. Don Raimond von Taxis brings an
intercepted letter to the Prince of Orange, that he must deliver to
Philip without delay. He enters the royal cabinet; Alba and Domingo
remain without in suspense, trembling for their own fate; the other
courtiers busy themselves in conjectures respecting the strange
conduct of the king—the imprisonment of his son, and the ominous
aspect of affairs. Count Lerma comes into the ante-chamber, apparently
shocked, and summons Alba to the presence. The princess of Eboli
hastily enters from without and is rushing to the king, but is held
back by Domingo; at length Alba returns and announces their complete
triumph.

The explanation of these events is reserved for the last act, which
discovers Carlos in a dungeon, into which the Marquis enters. Though
the unfortunate youth can no longer doubt the perfidy of his friend,
he does not dream of reproaching him for an act he is convinced sprang
from necessity, but only regrets that the queen should have been
involved in his destruction. Convinced that both are victims
deliberately sacrificed, his surprise is extreme when Posa gives him
again the queen's letter that he had committed to his safe keeping,
and had imagined in the hands of Philip. An eclaircissement ensues; in
the midst of which Duke Alba enters to announce his freedom, and
apologize on the part of the king for the mistake that led to his
imprisonment. The prince refuses to take back his sword, or leave the
dungeon till his father comes in person to restore him to liberty.
Alba departs with this message to the king, and the Marquis, exulting
in the success of his scheme, explains fully all his past conduct. He
has seemed to be the prince's enemy only that he may serve him better.
When deceived by Count Lerma's officious representations, Carlos had
thrown himself at the feet of the princess of Eboli, and Posa had
arrived too late to prevent a confession, which in the hands of that
envious woman might ruin all, the Marquis had suddenly resolved upon a
bold manœuvre. This was no less than to divert the king's suspicions
to himself, and thereby secure time for the prince's escape to
Brabant. For this purpose he wrote the letter to the Prince of Orange,
stating that he (the Marquis) was in love with the queen; that he
sought to fix the sovereign's suspicion upon his son, who was not only
innocent of the offence, but had endeavored, through the princess of
Eboli, to warn his mother-in-law against the arts of Posa. This
letter, as the writer intended, was intercepted by Taxis, and carried
to the king; and, in consequence, the prince was restored to favor.
The Marquis implores the prince to escape into Flanders, where his
duty lies; Carlos refuses to leave him; at the same instant a shot is
heard through the prison door, and the gallant Posa falls and expires.
The king and nobles enter; Philip offers to embrace his son, who
repels him indignantly, and discloses the fact that Posa was his
friend.

   Here your approach is death—I'll not embrace you.
   (_to nobles_) Why stand ye thus embarrassed round? What deed
   Of horror have I done? Have I assailed
   The Lord's anointed? Fear ye nought. I lay
   No hand on him. Behold ye not the brand
   Upon his brow? Him God hath marked!

None of the reproaches of Carlos are so bitter to his father, as his
taunting allusions to the fraud practised upon the king by the
deceased.

            Your favor you bestowed
  On him—he died for me. Your confidence,
  Your friendship you did urge—nay, force upon him;
  Your sceptre was the play-thing of his hands;
  He cast it forth, and died for me! And was
  It possible? Could you give credit—you—
  To such a dull deceit? How slightly he
  Must have esteemed you, that he ever dreamed
  With this poor mockery to overreach you!

       *       *       *       *       *

    He was no man for you! He knew it
  Himself right well—as he, with all your crowns,
  Rejected you. This holy heart was crushed
  Beneath your iron hand. You could do nought
  But murder him!       *       *
          Even you he could have made
  Most fortunate! His heart was rich enough
  In its o'erflow to have contented you.
  A fragment of his spirit would have made you
  A God!       *       *
    O you, who stand assembled here  {712}
  With wonder and with terror mute, condemn not
  The youth who dared reproachful words to utter
  Against his father and his king. Lo, here!
  For me he died! Have you yet tears? Flows blood,
  Not molten brass, within your veins? Look here—
  Condemn me not!
  (_To the King_.) And you, perhaps, await
  The close of this unnatural history.
  Here is my sword: you are my king again.
  Think you I tremble at your sovereign vengeance?
  Slay me, as you have slain the best and noblest.
  My life is forfeited. I know it well.
  What now is life to me? All I renounce
  That in this world awaits me. Seek henceforth
  'Mong strangers for your son. Here lies my kingdom!

A tumult is heard without, and an officer of the guard enters in
haste.

  _Officer_. Rebellion!
             Where is the king?—All Madrid is in arms!
             In countless crowds the raging populace
             Surround the palace. They exclaim—the prince
             Is in arrest, his life in mortal peril.
             The people will behold him living, safe,
             Or Madrid will be soon in flames!

  _Nobles_   Save—save
             The king!

  _Alba_.    Fly, sire—there's danger—hasten hence;
             We know not yet who arms the populace.

  _King_.    (_waking from a stupor_.)
             Stands my throne firm? Am I yet sovereign here?
             I am no longer king——These cowards weep,
             Made tender by a boy. They only wait
             The signal, from my side to fall away.
             I am betrayed by rebels.

  _Alba_.    Sire—my king!
             What dreadful fantasy——

  _King_.    Lo! yonder—haste,
             Prostrate yourselves! Before a promising
             And youthful king kneel down! I now am nothing
             But an old powerless man!

  _Alba_.    Is't come to this?
             Spaniards!

  _King_.    Go—clothe him in the royal robes!
             Lead him o'er my crushed corpse!

The attendants bear off his majesty, and Carlos, left alone, is joined
by Merkado, physician to the Queen, who brings her request for an
interview, that she may communicate to him his deceased friend's last
charge. The prince is to be in the vault at midnight, in the habit of
a monk, that he may be taken for the ghost of the dead emperor by the
superstitious guards.

The Dukes of Feria and Alba meet in the king's ante-chamber waiting
for an audience. Alba has a new discovery to make; a monk has been
arrested, who had found private access to the prince's apartment. In
the fear of death, he produced a paper, consigned to his care by the
Marquis of Posa, and addressed to Carlos, appointing his proposed
interview with the Queen at midnight, his subsequent departure from
Madrid for the Netherlands, and his rebellion, at the head of those
provinces, against the Spanish yoke. Philip enters, but evidently in
no condition to hear the communication of his ministers. His
passionate grief for the death of Posa, and his lamentations,
strikingly display the pride which is the ruling passion of his
nature.

  _King_.    Give the dead back to me; I must possess him
             Again.

  _Domingo_. (_to Alba_.) Speak you to him.

  _King_.    He thought so poorly
             Of me, and died i' the error. I must have him
             Again; he must think otherwise of me!

  _Alba_.    Sire——

  _King_.    Who speaks here? have you forgotten whom
             You stand before? Why kneel you not—bold man?
             I am your king, and I will have submission.
             Must all neglect, because there's one has dared
             Despise me?

  _Alba_.    O, no more of him, my lord!
             Another foe, important as he was,
             Is in your kingdom's heart!

  _Feria_.   Prince Carlos——

  _King_.    He had a friend, who has met death for him;
             For him—with me he had a kingdom shared!
             How looked he down on me! So haughtily
             None look down from a throne.

       *       *       *       *       *

             The dead is here no more. Who dares to say
             That I am happy? In the grave dwells one
             Who did withhold esteem from me! What worth
             Are all the living to me? One high spirit,
             One freeborn man, lived in this century;
             One—he despised me—and died!

  _Alba_.    So we
             Have lived in vain! Let us, too, Spaniards, go
             Down to the grave! Even in death, this man
             Of the king's heart doth rob us!

The reflections of Philip show that he also discerned the lofty
character of the deceased:

                       To whom brought he
  This offering?—to the boy my son? No—never!
  I'll ne'er believe it. For a boy dies not
  A Posa. Friendship's sordid flame fills not
  A Posa's heart. It stretched itself to embrace
  Humanity.  *  *  *
  Not Philip he disdained for Carlos—but
  The old man to the youth, his hopeful scholar.
  The father's setting sun could not enlighten
  His new day's work. The task he but deferred
  For the son's rising light!

  _Act V, Scene 9_.

An officer enters with the intelligence of the ghost seen in the
vault. The king having at length been made to comprehend the new
danger, sends for the Grand Inquisitor, and orders the entrances to
the vault to be stopped. The ensuing interview of Philip with the aged
dignitary, and the humility with which the haughty sovereign receives
the rebuke of the church, shows the superstition often attendant upon
cruelty. The king informs him of his designs respecting his son, and
asks,

                      Canst thou a new belief establish,
                      That shall excuse us a son's bloody death?

  _Grand Inquisitor_. To appease eternal righteousness, expired
                      The Son of God upon the cross.

  _King_.             Thou wilt
                      Throughout all Europe this opinion spread?

  _Gr. Inq._          Far as the Cross is honored.

  _King_.             I do violence  {713}
                      To nature; her all-powerful voice wilt thou
                      To silence also bring?

  _Gr. Inq._          Before Belief
                      Avails no voice of nature.

  _King_.             I resign
                      My office as his judge into thy hands.
                      May I do this?

  _Gr. Inq._          Give him to me.

The cold and brief manner in which this arrangement is concluded is
appalling. The plot hastens to its catastrophe. In a remote apartment
the queen's last meeting with the doomed prince takes place. Our last
extract shall be a part of the final scene.

  _Carlos_. (_sinking on one knee before her_.) Elizabeth!

  _Queen_.  And thus we meet again!

  _Carlos_. And thus we meet again!

  _Queen_.  Arise; we will not,
            Carlos, grow weak. Not with unworthy tears
            Must the great dead be honored. Tears may flow
            For smaller ills! He offered up himself
            For you!  *  *  *  O, Carlos,
            I spoke for you. On my security
            He left this place in joy. Will you my words
            Make false?

  _Carlos_. A monument I'll build to him—
            No king had e'er the like. Above his dust
            Shall bloom a paradise.

  _Queen_.  So have I wished!
            That was the mighty meaning of his death!
            He chose me his last will to execute;
            I claim the debt of you. I hold you bound
            To the fulfilment of this oath!

Carlos has awakened from his former madness; devoted only to the
accomplishment of his friend's dying request, he disclaims the
entertainment of any other feelings for the queen than an affection
founded on the circumstance that she was the confidant and friend of
the Marquis. At this juncture the King, Grand Inquisitor, and Nobles
appear in the back-ground, unperceived by the Prince or Elizabeth.

  _Carlos_. Now I depart from Spain,
            And see my father in this life no more;
            I cannot love him—nature in my breast
            Is now extinct—be you again his wife;
            His son is lost to him. Return to duty.
            I go to rescue my oppressed people
            From tyrant hands. Madrid sees me as king,
            Or never more. Now for our last farewell!
            *  *  *  Did you hear nought?

  _Queen_.  No, nothing—save the clock
            That sounds our separation.

  _Carlos_. Then good night,
            Mother; from Ghent you will receive the letter
            Which shall the secret of this interview
            Make public. I depart—henceforth with Philip
            To walk an open path. Henceforth between us
            There's nothing secret. You shall never need
            To shun the world's eyes.
            This is my last deceit. (_Attempts to put on his
                mask—the king steps between them_.)

  _King_.   It is your last! (_Queen falls senseless_.)

  _Carlos_. (_catches her in his arms_.) Is she dead?
            Oh, heaven and earth!

  _King_.   Cardinal! I have done
            My part—do yours!

We have occupied so much space in the details of this long and
intricate play, that we are compelled to curtail our remarks, and as
much as possible. Schiller has undoubtedly rendered his tragedy the
more interesting, from the glowing picture he presents of the manners
of the times. In the character of the Queen we think he has succeeded
better than Alfieri; in that of Philip, not so well. Schiller's Philip
is a tyrant; but the tyrant in Alfieri is painted in colors infinitely
stronger. Perhaps we are shown too uniformly the darker side of the
picture, but it is in all respects a powerful one. It was a bold and
fine thought in the Italian poet, to represent the monarch of Spain as
keeping himself aloof from all confidence or support from others, and
shrouding his designs ever in the inscrutable veil of hypocrisy. Even
in the presence of Gomez, his tried counsellor and servant, Filippo
maintains the same guarded and haughty reserve. His commands are brief
and laconic to a studied degree, and his follower in cruelty rather
divines his meaning, from his long habits of sharing in the schemes of
his master, than gathers the full import of the words uttered, from
the king's language. On no occasion does the king express openly what
we might suppose his feelings; it is only by his actions, and by
penetrating through his habitual deceit, that we are able to judge of
his plans. In the council scene, his hypocrisy deceives all his
courtiers; and in the catastrophe, the half-spoken expression of
rising remorse is checked on the instant, while he imposes silence,
under the penalty of death, on his accomplice in crime. This character
is one which it well suited the austere genius of Alfieri to depict;
one touch of relenting, or of a communicative spirit towards his
servant, and the whole had been marred. He walks with unfaltering step
towards the goal of his intent, wrapped in cold and impenetrable
reserve. Far different is the King that Schiller has painted. He is
comparatively open-hearted; and exhibits a confidence and candor
towards the Marquis of Posa, a being whose nature could never accord
with his, that seems to us quite misplaced in the character of a
tyrant like Philip. His jealousy is also that of pride, and pride is
his master passion; but the author has not done well to make him
indulge in such lengthened soliloquies. The Queen is a beautiful
creation; ingenuousness, dignity, and tenderness are finely displayed
in her lovely character. In aristocratic and feminine reserve, she is
much superior to Isabella in Alfieri, whose passion and devotedness
are more undisguised than is becoming to her sex and station. We do
not admire the readiness with which she discloses her still lingering
preference for Carlos; and her hesitation and embarrassment in
presence of the King, are unfavorably contrasted with the boldness,
founded on the consciousness of innocence, in Schiller's Elizabeth.
Alfieri has but sketched his other personages; Gomez is a reflection
of his master, and Perez appears but once to any purpose. The minor
persons in the German drama are, on the other hand, highly
interesting. The princess of Eboli is natural; her jealous attachment
to the prince urging her into a conspiracy which ends in his
destruction, her subsequent remorse and confession of guilt, and vain
efforts to save him, are all natural and dramatic. The character of
the Marquis of Posa might itself form the subject of an essay. A
citizen of the world, and devoted to the {714} accomplishment of his
Utopian schemes of government, his friendship is secondary to this
pervading and ruling desire. Hence his manner to Carlos on their first
interview after his return to Spain. He has early accustomed himself
to look upon his friend as the crown prince, and to anticipate the
high destiny he is to fulfil. This idea gives constraint to his
demeanor; and while Carlos opens his arms to welcome the friend of his
bosom, the political dreamer and enthusiast kneels at his feet. It
would have been the part of a true friend to discourage the
unfortunate attachment between the prince and his mother-in-law, but
it occurs to the Marquis that Flanders would have nothing to hope from
Carlos, while he languished with hopeless love. Liberated from the
thraldom of absorbing misery, he might be moulded to any thing his
friend could desire; and with this view Posa himself undertakes to
further his wishes. There is much that is noble in the character of
the prince; with a tender and benevolent heart, enthusiasm for all
that is great and good and beautiful, with delicacy and firmness of
nature, and generosity amounting to a fault, his imprudence and want
of foresight occasion all his misfortunes. The elements of future
greatness are in his nature, but his fiery impatience of temperament
prevent his obeying the dictates of an elevated judgment.

We have little to say upon the conduct of the plot and the style of
these two plays. The last scenes in Schiller's tragedy are too long,
and the catastrophe not striking; “Filippo” in this respect contrasts
favorably with it; the closing scene, as in most of Alfieri's pieces,
is brief, rapid and animated. We cannot admire the stratagem of the
ghost's appearance in the German play. The style of two productions so
different in character, the one adhering rigidly to the prescribed
rules of the classic school, and the other admitting all the exuberant
graces and dramatic effect belonging to another and more modern
system, can hardly be compared. The diction of Alfieri is severe and
harsh, and his extreme brevity might pass for affectation. That of the
German dramatist is far more pleasing and poetical. The work of the
latter is in almost every respect most to our taste, though Alfieri
has decidedly the advantage in his delineation of Philip.




LOAN TO THE MESSENGER.

NO. V.

The following stanzas have never as yet been published. They are from
the pen of a young friend of the transcriber, and written at his
request. He now takes the same liberty with them as with others from
divers sources hitherto, and inscribes them respectfully to the
readers of the Messenger.

J. F. O.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO A NAMELESS ONE.


  Lady! we never met before
    Within the world's wide space,—
  And yet, the more I gaze, the more
    I recollect thy face.
  Each feature to my mind recalls
    An image of the past,
  Which, where the shade of Memory falls,
    Is sacred to the last.

  But she, whose charms in thine I trace,
    Was not, alas! of earth:
  And yet of more than mortal grace,
    For Fancy gave her birth.
  She haunted me by sunlit streams,
    And burst upon my sight,
  When through the pleasant land of dreams,
    My spirit roved by night.

  Lost idol! why didst thou depart?
    Oh let thine earnest eyes,—
  Abstraction—vision though thou art,—
    Once more my soul surprise.
  She comes,—a gay and laughing girl!
    (Whom, happy, does she seek?)
  And raven curls their links unfurl
    Adown her blushing cheek.

  Her Grecian lineaments are bright
    With beauty half divine:
  She is “a phantom of delight,”
    Her dark eyes are—like thine!
  As music to a soul oppressed,
    As spring-flowers to the bee,
  As sunbeams to the Ocean's breast,
    Her presence is to me!

  I clasp her to my heart once more,—
    I am again a boy,—
  The past shows nothing to deplore,
    The future is all joy!
  We wander through deserted halls,
    We climb the wooded height,
  We hear the roar of water-falls,
    And watch the eagle's flight.

  We stand where sunset colors lie
    Upon a lake at rest,—
  And oh! what clouds of Tyrian dye
    Are sloping down the west!
  And see! above the purple pile
    The evening star appears,
  While she, who cheered me with her smiles,
    Now tries to hide her tears!

  Enough! the spell is at an end,—
    The pageant floats away,—
  And I no more may idly bend
    At Mem'ry's shrine to day.
  I turn to thee, whose beauty first
    That shape of love renewed,
  And waked emotions, that were nursed
    Long since, in solitude.

  I turn to thee, and start to see,
    Again that face and mien,—
  Those glassy ringlets, floating free,
    Those eyes of sparkling sheen!
  Two visions have waylaid my heart,—
    An old one and a new;
  And, Lady! by my faith, thou art
    The fairer of the two!

S.


{715}


_Editorial._




CRITICAL NOTICES.


THE SWISS HEIRESS.

_The Swiss Heiress; or The Bride of Destiny—A Tale. Baltimore: Joseph
Robinson._

The Swiss Heiress should be read by all who have nothing better to do.
We are patient, and having gone through the whole book with the most
dogged determination, are now enabled to pronounce it one of the most
solemn of farces. Let us see if it be not possible to give some idea
of the plot. It is the year 1780, and “the attention of the reader is
directed, first, to a Castle whose proud battlements rise amidst the
pines and firs of the Swiss mountains, while, at its base, roll the
waters of Lake Geneva,” and, second, to the sun which is setting
somewhat more slowly than usual, because he is “unwilling to terminate
the natal day of the young heiress of the Baron de Rheinswald, the
wealthy proprietor of Montargis castle, and its beautiful environs.”
We are thus left to infer—putting the two sentences and circumstances
in apposition—that the Montargis Castle where dwells the young heiress
of the Baron de Rheinswald, is neither more nor less than the
identical castle “with the proud battlements” et cetera, that “rises
amid the pines and firs” and so forth, of the “Swiss Mountains and the
Lake of Geneva” and all that. However this may be, the Baron de
Rheinswald is a “Catholic of high repute” who “early in life marries a
lady of great wealth, a member of his own church, actuated by
ambition”—that is to say, there was either something or somebody
“actuated by ambition,” but we shall _not_ say whether it was a lady
or a church. The lady (or perhaps now the church) “lived but five
years after the union, and at her death earnestly and solemnly
implored that her only son might be devoted to the priesthood.” The
lady, or the church (let us reconcile the difficulty by calling the
thing “Mother Church”) being thus deceased, the bereaved Baron marries
a second wife. She being a protestant however, the high contracting
parties sign an instrument by which it is agreed “that the eldest
child shall be educated by the mother's direction, a protestant, the
second be subject to the father's will and a catholic, and thus
alternately with all their children.” This, it must be allowed is a
contrivance well adapted for effect. Only think of the interesting
little creatures all taking it “turn about!” What fights, too, they
will have, when breeched, over their prayer-books and
bread-and-butter! Our author pauses in horror at anticipated
consequences, and takes this excellent opportunity of repeating what
“a late writer” (a great friend of his by the bye) says in regard to
“chemical combinations” and “opposite properties.”

The first child is a son, and called William. The second is a
daughter, Miss Laura, our heroine, the “Swiss Heiress,” and the “Bride
of Destiny.” She is the “Swiss Heiress” in virtue of a certain
“dispensation from the church of Rome, by which the estates of the
Baron were to descend to his first catholic child by his second
marriage” and she becomes the “Bride of Destiny” because the Baron has
very properly selected for her a husband, without consulting her
Heiress-ship about the matter. This intended husband is one Count
Laniski, young, good-looking, noble, valiant, wise, accomplished,
generous, amiable, and possessed of a thousand other good
qualities—all of which, of course, are just a thousand better reasons
why the Bride of Destiny, being a heroine, will have nothing to do
with him. Accordingly, at eight years old, she grows melancholy and
interesting, patronizes the gipsies, curses the Count Laniski, talks
about “fate, fore-knowledge, and free-will,” and throws aside her
bread-and-butter for desperation and a guitar. In spite of all she can
do, however, the narrative gets on very slowly, and we are upon the
point of throwing the lady (banjo and all) into the street, when the
Count himself makes his appearance at the Castle, and thereby
frightens her to such a degree that, having delivered a soliloquy, she
runs off with her “Brother William” to America.

“Brother William,” however, is luckily killed at the siege of
Yorktown, and the “Bride of Destiny” herself is recaptured by her
family, the whole of whom, having nothing better to do, have set out
in pursuit of her—to wit—her half brother Albert, (who is now Baron de
Rheinswald, the old Baron being dead) Clermont a croaking old monk,
and Madam de Montelieu a croaking old somebody else. These good
people, it seems, are still determined that the “Swiss Heiress” shall
be the “Bride of Destiny”—that is to say, the bride of the Count
Laniski. To make matters doubly sure too on this head, the old Baron
has sworn a round oath on his death-bed, leaving the “Swiss Heiress”
his “eternal curse” in the event of her disobedience.

Having caught and properly secured the young lady, the new Baron de
Rheinswald takes up his residence for a time “on the borders of
Vermont and Canada.” Some years elapse, and so forth. The “Bride of
Destiny” is nearly one and twenty; and the Count Laniski makes his
appearance with a view of urging his claim. The Heiress, we are forced
to say, now behaves in a very unbecoming and unaccountable manner. She
should have hung herself as the only rational course, and—heigho!—it
would have saved us a world of trouble. But, not having forgotten her
old bad habits, she persists in talking about “fate, foreknowledge,
and free will,” and it is not therefore to be wondered at that matters
in general assume a truly distressing complexion. Just at this crisis,
however, a Mr. Frederick Mortimer makes his interesting debût. Never
certainly was a more accomplished young man! As becomes a gentleman
with such an appellation as Frederick Mortimer, he is more beautiful
than Apollo, more sentimental than De Lisle, more distingué than
Pelham, and, positively, more mysterious than the “mysterious lady.”
He sympathizes with the woes of the “Bride of Destiny,” looks
unutterable threats at the Count Laniski, beats even the “Swiss
Heiress” at discoursing of “free will,” and the author of the “Swiss
Heiress” at quoting paragraphs from a “late writer.” The heart of the
“Bride of Destiny” is touched—sensibly touched. But Love, in romance,
must have impediments, and the Loves of the “Bride of Destiny” and Mr.
Frederick Mortimer have two. The first is some inexpressible mystery
connected with a certain gold ring, of which the Heiress is especially
careful, and the second is that rascally old Baron {716} Rheinswald's
“eternal curse.” Nothing farther therefore can be done in the
premises, but as we have now only reached Chapter the Sixth, and there
are to be seventeen chapters in all, it is necessary to do
something—and what better can be done than to talk, until Chapter the
Fifteenth, about “fate, foreknowledge, and free will?” Only imagine a
string of delightful sentences, such as the following, for the short
space of three hundred and ninety-six pages!


“How rapidly time flies,” said the Count, “I have been here weeks, and
they seem but days.”

“I am not surprised, my lord,” said Mrs. Falkner, smiling.

“Nor I,” he returned, also smiling. “This place, such society, wraps
the senses in such blissful illusion that I ‘take no note of time.’
The clock strikes unheeded, unheard.”

“Why do you smile, Miss Montargis?” asked Mrs. Falkner.

“I was just thinking,” she replied, “that Count Laniski had
unconsciously given a ‘local habitation and a name’ to the fabled
region where cold is so intense as to congeal sound.”

Mrs. Falkner bowed, but could not comprehend what such a region had to
do with Count Laniski's compliment to the heiress.

“Take care, Mr. Mortimer,” said Miss Montargis, still smiling, “you
are in dangerous vicinity. Have you no fear of cold?”

“It is not sufficiently _positive_,” he replied, “to destroy my belief
that it exists with much _latent_ warmth, which it requires but a
little address to render quite _sensible_.”

Mortimer spoke with mingled playfulness and seriousness, but the
latter prevailed, and Miss Montargis felt it a reproof, and blushed,
she scarcely knew why.

“To be sensible,” she said, “it must affect others. Who ever felt its
influence? not _she_ at least who has painfully realized its
_negativeness_.”

“I am sure you speak mysteries to me,” said Mrs. Falkner, laughing,
“what can you mean?” &c. &c.


We would proceed, but are positively out of patience with the gross
stupidity of Mrs. Falkner, who cannot understand what the other ladies
and gentlemen are talking about. Now we have no doubt whatever they
are discoursing of “fate, foreknowledge, and free will.”

About chapter the fifteenth it appears that the Count Laniski is not
the Count Laniski at all, but only Mr. Theodore Montelieu, and the son
of that old rigmarole, Madam Montelieu, the housekeeper. It now
appears, also, that even that Count Laniski whose appearance at
Montargis Castle had such effect upon the nerves of our heroine, was
not the Count Laniski at all, but only the same Mr. Theodore
Montelieu, the same son of the same old rigmarole. The true Count, it
seems, in his younger days, had as little partiality for the match
ordained him by fate and the two fathers, as the very “Bride of
Destiny” herself, and, being at college with Mr. Theodore Montelieu at
the time appointed for his visit to Montargis Castle, had no scruple
in allowing the latter gentleman to personate his Countship in the
visit. By these means Mr. M. has an opportunity of seeing his mother,
the old rigmarole, who is housekeeper, or something of that kind, at
the Castle. The precious couple (that is to say the old rigmarole and
her son) now get up a plot, by which it is determined that the son
shall personate the Count to the end of the chapter, and so marry the
heiress. It is with this end in view, that Mr. Theodore Montelieu is
now playing Count at the residence of the Baron in Vermont. Mr.
Frederick Mortimer, however, is sadly in his way, and torments the
poor fellow grievously, by grinning at him, and sighing at him, and
folding his arms at him, and looking at him asquint, and talking him
to death about “fate and foreknowledge and free will.” At last Mr.
Mortimer tells the gentleman flatly that he knows very well who he is,
leaving it to be inferred that he also knows very well who he is not.
Hereupon Mr. Theodore Montelieu calls Mr. Frederick Mortimer a liar, a
big liar, or something to that effect, and challenges him to a fight,
with a view of either blowing out his already small modicum of brains,
or having the exceedingly few blown out, which he himself (Mr.
Theodore Montelieu) possesses. Mr. Mortimer, however, being a hero,
declines fighting, and contents himself, for the present, with looking
mysterious.

It will now be seen that matters are coming to a crisis. Mr. Mortimer
is obliged to go to Philadelphia; but, lest Mr. Montelieu should whisk
off the heiress in his absence, he insists upon that gentleman bearing
him company. Having reached, however, the city of brotherly love, the
ingenious young man gives his keeper the slip, hurries back to
Vermont, and gets every thing ready for his wedding. Miss Montargis is
very angry and talks about the inexplicable ring, fate, fore-knowledge
and free will—but old Clermont, the Baron, and Mr. Montelieu, on the
other hand, get in an absolute passion and talk about nothing less
than the old Baron Rheinswald and his “eternal curse.” The ceremony
therefore proceeds, when just at the most proper moment, and all as it
should be, in rushes—Mr. Frederick Mortimer!—it will be seen that he
has come back from Philadelphia. He assures the company that the Count
Laniski, (that is to say Mr. Theodore Montelieu,) is not the Count
Laniski at all, but only Mr. Theodore Montelieu; and moreover, that he
himself (Mr. Frederick Mortimer) is not only Mr. Frederick Mortimer,
but the bonâ fide Count Laniski into the bargain. And more than this,
it is very clearly explained how Miss Laura Montargis is not by any
means Miss Laura Montargis, but only the Baroness de Thionville, and
how the Baroness de Thionville is the wife of the Baron de Thionville,
and how, after all, the Baron de Thionville is the Count Laniski, or
else Mr. Frederick Mortimer, or else—that is to say—how Mr. Frederick
Mortimer is'nt altogether the Count Laniski, but—but only the Baron de
Thionville, or else the Baroness de Thionville—in short, how every
body concerned in the business is not precisely what he is, and is
precisely what he is not. After this horrible development, if we
recollect, all the dramatis personæ faint outright, one after the
other. The inquisitive reader may be assured, however, that the whole
story ends judiciously, and just as it ought to do, and with a very
excellent quotation from one of the very best of the “late writers.”

Humph! and this is the “Swiss Heiress,” to say nothing of the “Bride
of Destiny.” However—it is a valuable “work”—and now, in the name of
“fate, fore-knowledge and free will,” we solemnly consign it to the
fire.


ROSZEL'S ADDRESS.

_Address delivered at the Annual Commencement of Dickinson College,
July 21, 1836, by S. A. Roszel, A.M.  Principal of the Grammar School.
Published by Request of the Board of Trustees. Baltimore: John W.
Woods._

Mr. Roszel, we have good reason for knowing, is a scholar, of
classical knowledge more extensive, and far more accurate than usual.
In his very elegant Address on Education now before us, he has
confined {717} himself to the consideration of “tutorial instruction
as embraced under the divisions of the subjects to be taught, and the
manner of teaching them.” Of the first branch of his theme, the
greater portion is occupied in a defence of the learned tongues from
the encroachments of a misconceived utilitarianism, and in urging
their suitableness as a study for the young. Here, Mr. R. is not only
forcible, but has contrived to be in a great measure, original. We are
especially pleased to see that, in giving due weight to the ordinary
ethical and merely worldly considerations on this topic, he has most
wisely dwelt at greater length on the loftier prospective benefits,
and true spiritual uses of classical attainment. We cite from this
portion of the address a passage of great fervor and beauty.


But are there not translations? If there were, a perusal of them would
be profitless, for it is to be borne in mind, that the tenor of the
preceding remarks has been uniformly to demonstrate the advantages,
not only of a perusal, but of the study of the dead languages. And so
this question is destitute of pertinence. But there never was a
translation of an ancient author. Versions there are, a majority of
them dull and spiritless, lifeless and jejune, but they are not
translations. And so are there odorless roses, and there might be
beamless suns. As in religion we aspire to drink from the fountain
head so let it be in literature. Let us be imbued with its spiritual
influences; for no one that has pondered them well can remain
unimpressed by the magnificent divulgement of quenchless, illimitable
intellect, by the resplendency of thought which bursts forth and glows
with a steady fervor, in the pages of the blind bard of Greece, and
the keen-sighted orator of Rome, with a vigor and intensity so
powerful, that the typographical characters themselves seem to stand
out, vivid and lustrous, like sentient gems, myriads of sparkling
emanations, burning and lucent, flashing a sentiment in every word, an
axiom in every line, a corollary in every paragraph. There is an
inborn inexpressible satisfaction to the mind well attuned, in being
able to appreciate the beauty and the strength, the essence and
vitality of those inimitable and indestructible periods of the
Athenian orator which called the ruddy blush of shame to the pallid
cheek of the coward, stirred the elements of enthusiastic honor to
tempestuous agitation, and excited the irrepressible shout, To battle!
there is a chaste delight in perusing the cutting satire, the splendid
objurgations, and the brilliant invectives of that eloquence, which
startled the world's victor from his unsteady throne, and speaking in
the bold terms of unquailing freedom, compelled the submission of arms
to the toga. But there is a still deeper, more serene and holy
rapture, in meditating on the accents of the Redeemer in the very
dialect in which they fell from his sacred lips; in meditating with an
awe ineffable, on the presumptuous sentence of an earth-born worm,
which consigned to a death of ignominy and shame, the august God of
the universe.


In Mr. R's remarks “on the manner of teaching”—on the duties of a
teacher—there is much to command our admiration and respect—a clear
conception of the nature and extent of tutorial duties, and a stern
sense of the elevated moral standing of the tutor.

We see, or we fancy we see, in the wording of this Address, another
instance of that tendency to _Johnsonism_ which is the Scylla on the
one hand, while a jejune style is the Charybdis on the other, of the
philological scholar. In the present case we refer not to
_sesquipedalia verba_, of which there are few, but to the too frequent
use of primitive meanings, and the origination of words at will, to
suit the purposes of the moment. But to these sins (for the world will
have them such) a fellow-feeling has taught us to be lenient—and,
indeed, while some few of Mr. Roszel's inventions are certainly not
English, there are still but _very_ few of them “_qui ne le doivent
pas etre_.”


WRAXALL'S MEMOIRS.

_Posthumous Memoirs of his Own Time. By Sir N. W. Wraxall, Bart.
author of “Memoirs of My Own Time.” Philadelphia: Republished by
Carey, Lea & Blanchard._

The “Memoirs of My Own Time” were published in 1815. They excited the
greatest commotion, and if we are to believe the Baronet, no literary
work ever procured for its author “a more numerous list of powerful
and inveterate enemies.” The queen, the regent, and the princesses of
the royal family disliked the portrait drawn of George the Third,
which every reasonable person will allow to be by no means a
caricature. They disapproved too, of the somewhat free comments on the
peace of 1763, and were highly incensed at certain _personal_
disclosures in regard to the king. The first Lord of the Treasury, son
of Charles Jenkinson, was offended at the “just and impartial”
character given his father. The partisans, respectively, of Pitt and
Fox, arose in arms at what they considered the gross abuse of their
leaders. The relatives of Lord North were enraged at the account of
his junction with Fox in 1783, notwithstanding the Baronet himself
considers that “he had done justice to that most accomplished and
amiable nobleman.” But this was not all. The Earl of Bute would not be
appeased. The Marquis of Lansdowne spoke of a prosecution in the court
of King's Bench on account of the reflections (unavoidable, we are
told) made on the resignation of the Earl of Shelburne. The “Quarterly
Review” in an article written, we are assured, by “men” in official
situations, held the “Memoirs” up to general reprobation as an
“imbecile and immoral work,” while the “Edinburg” joined in the hue
and cry with still greater virulence, and even more disgusting
personal abuse. Lastly, and much more than all to the purpose, Count
Woronzow, in consequence of the mention made of him by the Baronet, in
his relation of the circumstances connected with the marriage of the
Princess Royal to the late Duke of Wirtemberg, instituted a
prosecution, in order to vindicate his own official diplomatic
conduct. Garrow, then Attorney-General, was retained for the
prosecution, and it is to be observed that, passing over in few words
the particular passage for which the suit was commenced, he dwelt with
the greatest severity against the “Memoirs” at large. The disposition
of the government towards the defendant may, however, be fully
estimated by the fact, that although the court repeatedly disclaimed
having authorized the Attorney-General to call for a _vindictive_
judgment, declaring his sole object to be the clearing up of his own
character; and although the Baronet, for an offence which he declared
to be unintentional, made at once the most ample, prompt and public
apology, still the vindictive judgment of six months imprisonment, and
a fine of five hundred pounds, was ordered into execution, a part of
the imprisonment actually carried into effect, and the fine remitted
only through the most energetic and persevering exertions of Woronzow
himself. “Such,” says the author of the Memoirs, “was the combination
of assailants which my inflexible regard to truth assembled from the
most opposite quarters.” These clamors and difficulties, however, he
considered as more than sufficiently counterbalanced by the testimony,
now first communicated to the world, of the late Sir George Osborn—a
testimony indeed which should {718} be considered of authority. This
gentleman, a near relative of Lord North's, was of ancient descent,
high character, and large property; and from 1775, until the king's
final loss of reason, was one of the grooms of his bed-chamber. In a
letter to the Baronet shortly after his commitment to the King's
Bench, he thus writes: “I have your first here, and have perused it
again with much attention. I pledge my name that I personally know
nine parts out of ten of your anecdotes to be perfectly correct. You
are imprisoned for giving to future ages a perfect picture of our
time, and as interesting as Clarendon.” For ourselves, we had as soon
depend upon the character here given of the “Memoirs” as upon that
more highly colored portrait of them painted by the Attorney-General.

Thus persecuted, the Baronet took a lesson from experience, and
declined to publish the work now before us during his life-time. He
adopted also the necessary measures to guard against its issue during
the life-time of George the Fourth. In so doing, he has, of course,
secured his own personal convenience, but the delay has deprived his
reminiscences of that cotemporary interest which is the chief
seasoning of all similar works. Still the Baronet's pages will excite
no ordinary attention, and will be read with unusual profit and
pleasure. The book may be regarded as a series of parliamentary
sketches, in which are introduced, at random, a thousand other
subjects either connected or unconnected with the debates—such as
historical notices of the measures introduced,—personal anecdotes and
delineations of the speakers—political facts and inferences—attempts
at explaining the hidden motives of ministers or their agents—rumors
of the day—and remarks upon public events or characters abroad. The
Baronet is sadly given to scandal, and is peculiarly _piquant_ in the
indulgence of his propensity. At the same time there should be no
doubt (for there assuredly is no reason for doubting) that he is fully
in earnest in every word he says, and implicitly relies in the truth
of his own narrative. The lighter portions of his book, therefore,
have all the merit of vraisemblance, as well as of _haut gout_. His
style is occasionally very minute and prosy—but not when he has a
subject to his fancy. He is then a brilliant and vivid writer, as he
is at all times a sagacious one. He has a happy manner, when warmed
with an important idea, of presenting only its characteristic features
to the view—leaving in a proper shadow points of minor effect. The
reader is thus frequently astonished at finding himself fully
possessed of a subject about which very little has been said.

Among the chief characters that figure in the “Memoirs,” and
concerning each of whom the Baronet has a world of pithy anecdote, we
note Pitt, Burke, Fox, Sheridan, Erskine, Louis the Sixteenth, George
the Third, the Queen and royal family, Sir James Lowther, Lord
Chesterfield, the late Marquis of Abercorn (John James Hamilton,) Lady
Payne (Mademoiselle de Kelbel,) Lord North, Sir Philip Francis the
reputed author of Junius, Sir William Draper the defeated antagonist
of that writer, George Rose, (the indefatigable and faithful factotum
of Pitt,) the Duke of Queensbury, Harry Dundas, Hastings with his
agent Major Scott, Lord Eldon, Grey, Sidmouth, Thurlow, the Marquis of
Lansdowne, Lord Liverpool, Marie Antoinette, the Duchess of
Devonshire, the Duchess of Gordon, and (we should not have forgotten
him) the late dirty Duke of Norfolk, then Earl of Surrey. Of this
illustrious personage a laughable account is given. On one occasion—at
a great whig dinner at the Crown and Anchor, (in February 1798, while
all England was threatened with revolution, and when Ireland was on
the brink of open rebellion,) his Grace, inspired as usual with wine,
was fool enough to drink “The sovereign majesty of the people.”
“Assuredly,” says the Baronet drolly enough, “it was not in the ‘Bill
of Rights,’ nor in the principles on which reposes the revolution of
1688, that the Duke could discover any mention of such an attribute of
the people. Their liberties and franchises are there enumerated; but
their _majesty_ was neither recognized or imagined by those persons
who were foremost in expelling James the Second.” His Grace
accompanied the toast with some pithy observations relating to “the
two thousand persons who, under General Washington, first procured
reform and liberty for the thirteen American colonies.” Of course it
is not very singular that his remarks were considered as savoring of
sedition. Growing sober, next morning, he became apprehensive of
having proceeded too far. Accordingly, a day or two afterwards,
hearing that his words had excited much wrath at St. James's, he
waited on the Duke of York with an excuse and an apology, concluding
with a request that, in the event of invasion, his regiment of militia
might be assigned the post of danger. His Royal Highness listened to
him with much attention, and assured him that his desire should be
made known to the king—breaking off the conversation abruptly,
however, with “Apropos, my lord, have you seen Blue-Beard?” (the
popular pantomime of the day.) In _two days_ after this interview the
“dirty Duke” received his dismission both from the lord-lieutenancy
and from his regiment.

There are several connected narrations of some length and great
interest in the volume before us. One of these concerns the noted
Westminster election, when the charms and address of the Duchess of
Devonshire aided Fox so largely in defeating the governmental
influence—another the accusations of Hastings and Impey—another the
debates on the Regency Bill. The “Diamond Necklace” affair, in which
Madame de la Motte performed so important a part, is related clearly
and pointedly, but with some little diffuseness. We abridge the
Baronet's account of this extraordinary matter.

Prince Louis de Rohan, second brother of the Duke de Montbazon, was
fifty-one years of age at the epoch in question. He was a prelate of
elegant manners, of restless ambition, and of talents, although
ill-regulated. It appears that he was credulous and easily duped by
the designing. Previous to his attainment of the episcopal dignity,
and while only coadjutor of Strasburg, he had been employed in
diplomacy, and acted, during a considerable time, as Ambassador from
the Court of France at Vienna, in the reign of Maria Theresa.
Returning home, he attempted to reach the ministerial situation left
vacant by Maurepas. But Louis the Sixteenth had imbibed strong
prejudices against him, and the queen held him in still greater
aversion. Yet he was resolutely bent upon acquiring her favor, and
indeed entertained, it seems, the hope of rendering himself personally
acceptable to her. At this time she {719} was very beautiful, loved
admiration, was accessible to flattery, and not yet thirteen years of
age.

Among the numerous individuals who then frequented Versailles with the
view of advancing their fortune, was Mademoiselle de la Valois. She
became an object of royal notice, through the accidental discovery of
her descent from Henry the Second, by one of his mistresses, St.
Renny, a Piedmontese lady of noble birth. A small pension was bestowed
on her, and she soon afterwards married a gentleman of the name of La
Motte, one of the Count de Provence's body guards. His duties
retaining him at Versailles near the person of the Count, Madame de la
Motte became well known to the Cardinal de Rohan, whose character she
appears to have studied with great attention. She herself was totally
devoid of moral principle, and her habits of expense induced her to
resort to the most desperate expedients for recruiting her finances.
About this time, one Boehmer, a German jeweller well known at the
court of France, had in possession a most costly diamond necklace,
valued at near seventy thousand pounds sterling, and obtained
permission to exhibit it to her majesty. The queen, however, declined
buying it. Madame de la Motte receiving information of the fact,
resolved to fabricate a letter from the queen to herself, authorizing
her to make the purchase. In this letter Marie Antoinette was made to
express a determination of taking the necklace at a certain indicated
price—under the positive reserve, however, that the matter should
remain a profound secret, and that Boehmer would agree to receive his
payment by instalments, in notes under her own hand, drawn on her
treasurer at stipulated periods.

Furnished with this authority, Madame de la Motte repaired to the
Cardinal de Rohan. Submitting to him, as if in confidence, the queen's
pretended letter, she dwelt on the excellent opportunity which then
presented itself to him, of acquiring her majesty's favor. She urged
him to see Boehmer, and to assure him of the queen's desire—the proof
of which lay before him. The Cardinal, however credulous, refused to
embark in the affair, without receiving from Marie's own mouth the
requisite authority. Madame de la Motte had foreseen this impediment
and already provided against it. There lived at that time in Paris an
actress, one Mademoiselle D'Oliva, who in her figure bore great
resemblance to the queen. This lady they bribed to personate her
majesty—asserting that a frolic only was intended.

Matters being thus arranged, Madame de la Motte acquainted the
Cardinal that Marie Antoinette felt the propriety of his eminence's
scruples, and with a view of removing them, and at the same time of
testifying her sense of his services, had resolved to grant him an
interview in the gardens of Versailles—but that certain precautions
must be adopted lest the transaction should come to the knowledge of
the king. With this end the Cardinal was told her majesty had fixed
upon a retired and shady spot, to which she could repair muffled up in
such a manner as to elude notice. “The interview,” Madame de la Motte
added, “must be very short, and the queen resolutely refuses to speak
a single word lest she may be overheard.” Instead of verbally
authorizing De Rohan to pledge her authority to Boehmer, it was
therefore settled that she hold in her hand a flower, which, on the
Cardinal's approaching her, she would immediately extend to him as a
mark of her approval.

This blundering plot, we are told, succeeded. Mademoiselle D'Oliva
personated the queen à merveille, and the Cardinal, blinded by love
and ambition, was thoroughly duped. Convinced that he had now received
an unquestionable assurance of Marie Antoinette's approbation, he no
longer hesitated to pledge himself to Boehmer. A deduction of above
eight thousand pounds on the price demanded, having been procured from
him, promissory notes for the remainder, exceeding sixty thousand
pounds, drawn and signed in the queen's name, payable at various
periods by her treasurer, were delivered to the jeweller by Madame de
la Motte. She then received from him the necklace. Her husband having
obtained leave of absence, under the pretence of visiting the place of
his nativity, carried off the diamonds, and, arriving safe in London,
disposed of some of the finest stones among the dealers of that city.
Madame de la Motte herself, we cannot exactly understand why, remained
at Paris. The Cardinal, also, continued in unsuspecting security at
court. But the day arriving when her majesty's first promissory note
became due, the fraud was of course discovered. As soon as the part
which de Rohan had performed in it was fully ascertained, the whole
matter was laid by her majesty before the king. Louis, after
consulting with some of his ministers, finally determined upon the
Cardinal's arrest. “Such an event,” says our author, “taking place in
the person of a member of the Sacred College, an ecclesiastic of the
highest birth and greatest connections, related through the kings of
Navarre to the sovereign himself, and grand almoner of France, might
well excite universal amazement. Since the arrest of Foucquet,
superintendant of the finances, by Louis the Fourteenth, in 1661, no
similar act of royal authority had been performed: for we cannot
justly compare with it the seizure and imprisonment of the Duke of
Maine in 1718, by order of the Regent Duke of Orleans. The Cardinal de
Rohan's crime was private and personal, wholly unconnected with the
state, though affecting the person and character of the queen. He was
conducted to the Bastile, invariably maintaining that he had acted
throughout the whole business with the purest intentions; always
conceiving that he was authorized by her majesty, and was doing her a
pleasure. Madame de la Motte, Mademoiselle D'Oliva, and some other
suspected individuals were also conveyed to the same fortress.
Notwithstanding the queen's evident innocence in this singular
robbery, a numerous class of Parisians either believed or affected to
believe her implicated in the guilt of the whole transaction.”

This account is followed up by the relation of a private and personal
adventure of the Baronet, of the most romantic and altogether
extraordinary character. He gives the detailed narrative of a plot, in
which he acted a conspicuous part as secret agent, for the restoration
of the imprisoned queen Caroline Matilda of Denmark, and to which
George the Third had given his approbation and promised his
assistance. Had this revolution been carried into effect it would have
brought about the most important changes in the political aspect of
the north of Europe. The sudden death of the queen put an end to the
attempt, however, just when all preparations were completed, and
success was beyond a reasonable doubt. In the spring of 1784, a
similar {720} exertion placed the young prince royal, then only
sixteen years of age, in possession of the Regency, which his mother's
death alone prevented her from attaining in 1775. After the queen's
decease, some of her most active friends interested themselves with
George the Third to procure the Baronet a proper remuneration for his
services. For nearly six years, however, the attempt was unsuccessful.
The final result is thus related by the author himself.


In 1780 I came into Parliament; and some months afterwards as I was
seated nearly behind Lord North in the House of Commons, only a few
members being present, and no important business in agitation, he
suddenly turned round to me. Speaking in a low tone of voice so as not
to be overheard, “Mr. Wraxall,” said he, “I have received his
majesty's command to see and talk to you. He informs me that you
rendered very important services to the late queen of Denmark, of
which he has related to me the particulars. He is desirous of
acknowledging them. We must have some conversation together on the
subject. Can you come to me to Busby Park, dine, and pass the day?” I
waited on him there in June 1781, and was received by him in his
cabinet alone. Having most patiently heard my account of the
enterprise in which I engaged for the queen Matilda's restoration, he
asked me what remuneration I demanded. I answered, one thousand
guineas, as a compensation for the expense which I had incurred in her
majesty's service, and an employment. He assured me that I should have
both. Robinson, then Secretary to the Treasury, paid me the money soon
afterwards; and I confidently believe Lord North would have fulfilled
his promise of employing me, or rather of giving me a place of
considerable emolument, if his administration had not terminated early
in the following year, 1782.


The volume concludes with an appendix embodying a variety of
correspondence in relation to this singular matter, under the heading
of “Letters and Papers respecting the Queen of Denmark.” Altogether,
these “Posthumous Memoirs” afford a rich fund of entertainment—and in
especial to the lovers of political gossip we most heartily recommend
their perusal.


AMERICAN ALMANAC.

_The American Almanac, and Repository of Useful Knowledge, for the
year 1837. Boston: Published by Charles Bowen._

This is the eighth number of a work more justly entitled to be called
“A Repository of Useful Knowledge” than any with which we are
acquainted. From its commencement it has been under the editorial
management of Mr. J. E. Worcester, for more than twenty years known to
the American public as an able and most indefatigable author and
compiler. If we are not mistaken, this period at least has elapsed
since the publication of his “Gazetteer of the United States.” Besides
that work, of whose great merit it is of course unnecessary now to
speak, Mr. W. has written “The Elements of Geography”—“The Elements of
History”—an Edition of Johnson's Dictionary as improved by Todd and
abridged by Chalmers—an Abridgment of the American Dictionary of
Doctor Webster—and a “Comprehensive Pronouncing and Explanatory
Dictionary of the English Language, with Pronouncing Vocabularies of
Classical, Scripture, and Modern Geographical Names.” All these
publications are of high reputation and evince unusual perseverance
and ability.

A glance at the “American Almanac” will suffice to assure any one that
no ordinary talent, and industry, have been employed in bringing it to
its present condition. An acute judgment has been necessary in the
selection of the most needful topics, to the exclusion of others
having only a comparative value—in the condensation of matter—in the
means of acquiring information—and in the estimation of the degree of
credit which should be given it when received. The variety of themes
handled in the volume, the perspicuity and brevity with which they are
treated, their excellent arrangement, and the general accuracy of the
statistical details, should secure for the work a circulation even
more extensive than at present. With the exception of the astronomical
department, for which we are indebted to Mr. Paine, it is understood
that _all_ the contents of the volume (a thick and closely printed
octavo of 324 pages, abounding in intricate calculations) have been
prepared by the indefatigable editor himself.

The “Almanac” for 1837 contains the usual register of the National and
State Governments, an American and Foreign obituary and chronicle of
recent events, a valuable “Treatise on the use of Anthracite Coal,” by
Professor Denison Olmsted of Yale, an account of “Public Libraries,” a
“Statistical View of the Population of the United States,” a series of
Tables relating to the “Cultivation, Manufacture, and Foreign Trade of
Cotton,” and Meteorological notices of Seasons and the Weather. In the
account of each individual State pains have been taken to give
accurate intelligence respecting all matters of Internal
Improvement—more especially in regard to Canals and Rail-Roads. In the
next volume some further details upon this head are promised—some
account also of Pauperism in the United States, and a wider variety of
statistical notices in relation to foreign countries. We have before
stated our conviction, and here repeat it, that no work of equal
extent in America embodies as much really important
information—important to the public at large—as the eight published
volumes of Mr. Worcester's Almanac. We believe that complete sets of
the work can still be obtained upon application to the publisher, Mr.
Charles Bowen of Boston. Its mechanical execution, like that of all
books from the same press, is worthy of the highest commendation.


COOPER'S SWITZERLAND.

_Sketches of Switzerland. By an American. Part Second. Philadelphia:
Carey, Lea and Blanchard._

The London Spectator has very justly observed of this, Mr. Cooper's
last work, that two circumstances suffice to distinguish it from the
class of sketchy tours. He has contrived to impart a _narrative_
interest to his journey; and, being an American, yet intimately
conversant with all the beauties of the Old World, he looks at
Switzerland with a more instructed eye than the mass of travellers,
and is enabled to commit its landscapes to a comparison which few of
them have the means of making—thus possessing an idiosyncracy giving
freshness to what otherwise would be faded. In our notice of Part 1,
of the work before us, we had occasion to express our full sense of
the writer's descriptive powers, refined and strengthened as they now
appear to us to be. Is it that Mr. Cooper derives vigor from spleen,
as Antæus from earth? This idea might indeed be entertained were his
improved power to-day not especially perceptible in his delineations
of the calm majesty of nature. It must be observed by all {721} who
have read the “Headsman,” and who now read the “Sketches,” that the
same scenes are frequently the subject of comment in each work. The
drawings in the former are seldom more than mediocre—in the latter we
meet with the vivid coloring of a master.

The subject of the first two volumes is Mr. Cooper's visit to
Switzerland in 1828—that of the two now published, his visit in 1832.
The four years intervening had effected changes of great moment in the
political aspect of all Europe, and produced of course a modification
of feeling, taste, and opinion in our author. In his preface he
pithily observes—“Four years in Europe are an age to the American, as
are four years in America to the European. Jefferson has somewhere
said that no American ought to be more than five years at a time out
of his own country, lest he get _behind_ it. This may be true as to
its _facts_—but the author is convinced that there is more danger of
his getting before it as to opinion. It is not improbable that this
book may furnish evidence of both these truths.” In the last sentence
there may be some little arrogance, but in the one preceding there is
even more positive truth. We are a bull-headed and prejudiced people,
and it were well if we had a few more of the stamp of Mr. Cooper who
would feel themselves at liberty to tell us so to our teeth.

The criticism alluded to in the following passage has never met our
observation. Since it is the fashion to decry the author of “the
Prairie” just now, we are astonished at no degree of malignity or
scurrility whatever on the part of the little gentlemen who are
determined to follow that fashion—but we are surprised that Mr. C.
should have thought himself _really_ suspected of any such ridiculous
“purposes.”


Some one, in criticising the First Part of Switzerland, has intimated
that the writer has a purpose to serve with the “Trades' Unions” by
the purport of some of his remarks. As this is a country in which the
avowal of a tolerably sordid and base motive seems to be
indispensable, even to safety, the writer desires to express his sense
of the critic's liberality, as it may save him from a much graver
imputation. There is really a painful humiliation in the reflection,
that a citizen of mature years, with as good natural and accidental
means for preferment as have fallen to the share of most others, may
pass his life without a _fact_ of any sort to impeach his
disinterestedness, and yet not be able to express a generous or just
sentiment in behalf of his fellow creatures, without laying himself
open to suspicions as degrading to those who entertain them, as they
are injurious to all independence of thought and manliness of
character.


The present volumes strike us as more entertaining upon the whole than
those which preceded them. They embrace a wide range of stirring
anecdote, and some details of a very singular nature indeed. As the
book will be universally read it is scarcely necessary to say more.


PROFESSOR DEW'S ADDRESS.

_An Address delivered before the Students of William and Mary at the
opening of the College on Monday, October 10, 1836. By Thomas R. Dew,
President, and Professor of Moral and Political Philosophy. Published
by request of the Students. Richmond: T. W. White._

Of the talents and great acquirements of Professor Dew it is quite
unnecessary to speak. His accession to the Presidency of William and
Mary is a source of hearty congratulation with all the real friends of
the institution. Already we perceive the influence of his character,
and unusual energy, in an increasing attention on the part of the
public to the capabilities of this venerable academy—and in a
re-assured hope of her ultimate prosperity. Indeed she had never more
brilliant prospects than just now, and there can be little doubt that
at least as many students as have ever entered, will enter this year.
The number has at no time been very great it is true; and yet, in
proportion to her alumni, this institution has given to the world more
useful men than _any other_—more truly great statesmen. Perhaps the
scenery and recollection of the place, the hospitable population, the
political atmosphere, have all conspired to imbue the mind of the
student at Williamsburg with a tinge of utilitarianism. Her graduates
have always been distinguished by minds well adapted to _business_,
and for the greatest efficiency of character. Some colleges may have
equalled her in Physics and Mathematics—indeed we are aware of _one_
institution, at least, which far surpasses her in these studies—but
few can claim a rivalship with her in Moral and Political Science; and
it should not be denied that these latter are the subjects which give
the greatest finish to the mind, and exalt it to the loftiest
elevation. To William and Mary is especially due the high _political_
character of Virginia.

She is the oldest college in the Union save one, and even older than
that, if we may date back to the establishment of an academy (one of
some note) prior to the erection of the present buildings. Respect for
her long and great services, and veneration for her ancient walls,
will have weight among the people of Virginia. As efficient an
education can now be procured in her lecture-rooms as elsewhere in the
Union. Her discipline is rigid, but relies strongly on the chivalry
and honor of the Southern student. We will attempt to convey briefly
some idea of the several professorial departments.

The plan embraces a course of general study which may be pursued to
great advantage by all, without reference to the nature of the
profession contemplated. Besides this the subject of Law is included.
In the classical school is a preparatory department for elementary
instruction. In the higher branch the attention of the student is
confined to Horace, Cicero de Oratore, Terence, Juvenal, Livy and
Tacitus; Xenophon's Anabasis, Æschylus, Herodotus, Euripides,
Sophocles, Thucydides, and Homer. He will be required to read these
works with facility, to master portions of history which may be
referred to, and to acquire a thorough acquaintance with the whole
Philosophy of the Latin and Greek Grammars. For a degree in the
classical department it is necessary that the candidate should not
only be a proficient in the studies just mentioned, but that he should
obtain a certificate of qualification on the junior mathematical,
rhetorical and historical courses. The classical graduate therefore,
must be more than a mere Latin and Greek scholar. Besides this degree
there are three others—those of A.B., B.L. and A.M. The courses
necessary for the degree of A.B. embrace the four great departments of
physics, morals, and politics. The degree of B.L. is not conferred for
a mere knowledge of Laws. The candidate must have studied, besides the
municipal law, the subject of government and national law, together
with some exposition of our own system of {722} government. He must,
moreover, have obtained the Baccalaureate honor in this or some other
institution, or else have attended a full course of lectures in some
one of the scientific departments of William and Mary. The degree of
A.M. (the highest honor conferred by the college) requires generally
two years additional study after obtaining the bachelor's degree, and
in these two years all the studies pursued in the first portion of the
collegiate career are amplified—the principles of science are now
applied to facts. A school of civil engineering is most properly
attached to the institution.

Would our limits permit, we would be proud to make long extracts from
the excellent Address now before us. It is, as usual with every thing
from the same source, comprehensive and eloquent, and full of every
species of encouragement to the searcher after knowledge. We can well
imagine the enthusiasm enkindled in the student by sentences such as
these—


There is no privileged class here to rule by the right divine. Far
different is our case from the despotisms of the ancient world, or the
monarchies of the modern. Sovereignty resided formerly at Babylon, at
Thebes, at Persepolis. Now we find it at Paris, Vienna, and London.
But in our own more happy country, it pervades our territory like the
very air we breathe, reaching the farthest and binding the most
distant together. Politics here is the business of every man, no
matter how humble his condition may be. We have it in commission to
instruct the world in the science and the art of government. We must,
if we succeed, exhibit the extraordinary phenomenon of a well
educated, virtuous, intelligent people, “free without
licentiousness—religious without a religious establishment—obedient to
laws administered by citizen magistrates, without the show of official
lictors or fasces, and without the aid of mercenary legions or
janissaries.” As a nation, a glorious charge has devolved upon us. Our
condition prescribes to each one the salutary law of Solon, that there
shall be no neutrals here. Each one must play his part in the great
political drama; and you, gentlemen, who have assembled here for the
purpose of receiving a liberal education, must recollect that
fortunate circumstances have placed you among the privileged few.
Every motive of honor, of patriotism, and a laudable ambition, should
stimulate to the utmost exertion. Neglect not the precious opportunity
which is afforded you. The _fine talents_ are entrusted to your care;
beware lest you bury or throw them away. This is the most important
era of your life—the very seed-time of your existence; success now may
insure you success hereafter.

The age in which you live, and the circumstances by which you are
surrounded, as inhabitants of the south, create a special demand for
your utmost exertions. The times are indeed interesting and momentous.
We seem to have arrived at one of those great periods in the history
of man, when fearful and important changes are threatened in the
destiny of the world. In the prophetic language of the boldest of
philosophers, we may perhaps with truth affirm, that “the crisis of
revolutions is at hand.” Never were the opinions of the world more
unsettled and more clashing than at this moment. Monarchists and
democrats, conservatives and radicals, whigs and tories, agrarians and
aristocrats, slave-holders and non-slave-holders, are all now in the
great field of contention. What will be the result of this awful
conflict, none can say. England's most eloquent and learned divine
tells us, that there now sits an unnatural scowl on the aspect of the
population—a resolved sturdiness in their altitude and gait; and
whether we look to the profane recklessness of their habits, or to the
deep and sealed hatred which rankles in their hearts, we cannot but
read in these moral characteristics the omens of some great and
impending overthrow. The whole continent of Europe is agitated by the
conflicts of opinions and principles; and we are far, very far from
the calm and quiet condition which betokens the undoubted safety of
the republic.

When the times are so interesting and exciting; when clouds are
lowering above the political horizon, portending fearful storms; when
the lapse of time is every day disclosing great and startling events,
can you, gentlemen, fold your arms in inglorious indolence—throw away
the opportunity that is now offered you—fail to prepare for the
important part which should devolve on you, and add yourselves to the
great mass of the unaspiring?


MEMORIALS OF MRS. HEMANS.

_Memorials of Mrs. Hemans, with Illustrations of her Literary
Character from her Private Correspondence. By Henry F. Chorley. New
York: Saunders and Otley._

Mr. Chorley is well known to American readers as a contributor to the
chief of the London Annuals, and still better as the author of the
stirring volumes entitled “Conti, the Discarded, with Other Tales and
Fancies.” We have long regarded him as one of the most brilliant among
the literary stars of England, as a writer of great natural and
cultivated taste, and of a refined yet vigorous and lofty imagination.
As a musical connoisseur, or rather as profoundly versed in the only
true philosophy of the science, he may be considered at unrivalled.
There are, moreover, few persons now living upon whose appreciation of
a poetical character we would look with a higher respect, and we had
consequently promised ourselves no ordinary gratification in his
“Memorials of Mrs. Hemans.” Nor have we been disappointed.

About fourteen months ago Mr. Chorley collected and published in the
London Athenæum some deeply interesting reminiscences of Mrs. H. of
which the volumes now before us are an extension. A variety of
materials, afforded him by friends, has enabled him to continue his
notices beyond the period of his own personal acquaintance, and, by
linking correspondence and anecdote, to trace out, with great facility
and beauty, the entire progress of the mind of the poetess. He has
exclusively confined himself, however, to this one object, and
refrained from touching upon such occurrences is her private life as
were not actually necessary in the illustrations of her mental and
literary existence. The “Memorials” therefore, it is right to state,
lay no claim to the entire fulness of Biography. The following brief
personal notice is to be found in the opening pages:


Felicia Dorothea Browne—the second daughter and the fourth child of a
family of three sons and three daughters—was born in Duke-street,
Liverpool, on the 25th of September, 1794. Her father was a native of
Ireland, belonging to a branch of the Sligo family; her mother, a Miss
Wagner, was a descendant of a Venetian house, whose old name, Veniero,
had in the course of time been corrupted into this German form. Among
its members were numbered three who rose to the dignity of Doge, and
one who bore the honorable rank of commander at the battle of Lepanto.
In the waning days of the Republic, Miss Browne's grandfather held the
humble situation of Venetian consul in Liverpool. The maiden name of
his wife was Haddock, a good and ancient one among the yeomanry of
Lancashire; three of the issue of this union are still surviving. To
these few genealogical notices it may be added that Felicia Dorothea
was the fifth bearing that christian name in her mother's family, that
her elder sister, Eliza, of whom affectionate mention is made in her
earliest poems, died of a decline at the age of eighteen; and that her
brother Claude, who reached manhood, died in America several years
ago. Two brothers older than herself, and one sister, her junior, are
therefore all that now survive.


It must not be supposed from what we say that Mr. Chorley has given us
nothing of personal history. The volumes abound delightfully in such
anecdotes of the poetess as go to illustrate her literary
peculiarities and career. These indeed form the staple of the book,
and, in the truly exquisite narration of Mr. Chorley, are {723}
moulded into something far more impressive than we can imagine any
legitimate biography. We cannot refrain from turning over one by one
the pages as we write, and presenting our readers with some mere
outlines of the many reminiscences which the author has so beautifully
filled up. We shall intersperse them with some of Mr. C's.
observations, and occasionally with our own.

The “stately names of her maternal ancestors” seem to have made an
early and strong impression upon the poetess, tinging her mind at once
with the spirit of romance. To this fact she would often allude half
playfully, half proudly. She was accustomed to say that although the
years of childhood are usually happy, her own were too visionary not
to form an exception. At the epoch of her death she was meditating a
work to be called “Recollections of a Poet's Childhood.”—When a child
she was exceedingly beautiful: so much so as to attract universal
attention. Her complexion was brilliant, her hair long and curling,
and of a bright golden color. In her latter years it deepened into
brown, but remained silken, profuse, and wavy to the last.—A lady once
remarked in her hearing, “That child is not made for happiness I know;
her color comes and goes too fast.” This remark our poetess never
forgot, and she spoke of it as causing her much pain at the
moment.—She took great delight, when young, in reciting aloud poems
and fragments of plays. “Douglas” was an especial favorite. The scene
of her rehearsals was generally an old, large, and dimly-lighted room,
an old nursery, looking upon the sea. Her memory is said to have been
almost supernatural.—When she was little more than five years old, her
father removed his family from Liverpool to North Wales. This
circumstance had great influence upon her imagination. The mansion
removed to was old, solitary, and spacious, lying close to the sea
shore, and shut in, in front, by a chain of rocky hills. In her last
illness she frequently alluded to the atmosphere of romance which
invested her here. The house bore the reputation of being haunted. On
one occasion, having heard a rumor concerning a “fiery grey hound
which kept watch at the end of an avenue,” she sallied forth at
midnight anxious to encounter the goblin. Speaking of this period, she
observed, that could she have been then able to foresee the height of
reputation to which she subsequently attained, she would have
experienced a far higher happiness than the reality ever occasioned.
Few in similar circumstances but have thought thus without expressing
it.—She was early a reader of Shakspeare, and was soon possessed with
a desire of personifying his creations. Imogen and Beatrice were her
favorites, neither of which characters, Mr. Chorley remarks, is
“without strong points of resemblance to herself.”—A freak usual with
her was to arise at night, when the whole family were asleep, and
making her way to the sea shore, to indulge in a stolen bath.—She was
_never at school_. “Had she been sent to one,” observes Mr. Chorley,
“she would more probably have run away.” The only things she was ever
regularly taught were English Grammar, French, and the rudiments of
Latin. Her Latin teacher used to deplore “that she was not a man to
have borne away the highest honors at college.”—Her attention was
first attracted to the literature and chivalry of Spain by the
circumstance of a near relation being engaged in the Peninsular war.
She shrunk with more than ordinary feminine timidity from bodily pain,
refusing even to have her ears pierced for rings, and yet delighted in
records of martial glory. One of her favorite ornaments was the Cross
of the Legion of Honor, taken on some Spanish battle-field. Campbell's
Odes were her delight; the lines, especially,

  Now joy, old England! rise
  In the triumph of thy might!

Yet she had little taste for mere pageantry.—An unkind review to which
her earliest poems gave occasion so preyed upon her mind as to confine
her for several days to bed.—During the latter part of her life a
gentleman called upon her and thanked her with great earnestness for
the serious benefit he had derived from “the Sceptic,” which he stated
to have been instrumental in rescuing him from gross infidelity.—The
first noted literary character with whom she became intimately
acquainted, was Bishop Heber, to whom she was introduced in her
twenty-fifth year. She confided her literary plans to him, and always
spoke of him with affection. It was at his instigation she first
attempted dramatic composition. He was her adviser in the “Vespers of
Palermo.” This play was brought forward at Covent Garden in December
1823, the principal characters being taken by Young, Charles Kemble,
Yates, Mrs. Bartley, and Miss Kelly. It was not well received, but the
authoress bore her disappointment cheerfully. The drama was afterwards
produced with much greater success in Edinburgh. Sir Walter Scott
wrote an epilogue for it, and from this circumstance arose the
subsequent acquaintance between the “Great Unknown” and Mrs. H——. Of
Kean, she said that “seeing him act was like reading Shakspeare by
flashes of lightning.”—She possessed a fine feeling for music as well
as for drawing.—Of the “Trials of Margaret Lindsay” she thus expresses
a just critical opinion: “The book is certainly full of deep feeling
and beautiful language, but there are many passages which, I think,
would have been better omitted; and although I can bear as much
fictitious woe as other people, I really began to feel it an
infliction at last.”—She compliments Captain Basil Hall's “temperate
style of writing.”—Speaking of the short descriptive _recitative_
which so frequently introduces a lyrical burst of feeling in the minor
pieces of our poetess, Mr. Chorley observes: “This form of composition
became so especially popular in America, that hardly a poet has arisen
since the influence of Mrs. Hemans' genius made itself felt on the
other side of the Atlantic, who has not attempted something of a
similar subject and construction.”—Among the last strangers who
visited her in her illness, were a Jewish gentleman and lady, who
entreated admittance to “the author of the ‘Hebrew Mother.’”—“There
shall be no more snow,” in the “Tyrolese Evening Hymn,” seems to have
been suggested by Schiller's lines in the “_Nadowessiche
Todtenklage_:”

  Wohl ihm er ist hingegangen
  Wo kein schnee mehr ist!—

The “Lays of Many Lands,” which appeared chiefly in the New Monthly
Magazine, were suggested, as she herself owned, by Herder's “_Stimmen
der Volker in Liedern_.” She spoke of the German language as “rich and
affectionate, in which I take much delight.”—She considered “The
Forest Sanctuary” as the best of her {724} works: the subject was
suggested by a passage in one of the letters of Don Leucadio Doblado,
and the poem was written for the most part in—a laundry. These verses
are pointed out by Chorley as beautiful, which assuredly they are.

  And if she mingled with the festive train
  It was but as some melancholy star
  Beholds the dance of shepherds on the plain,
  In its bright stillness present though afar.

He praises also with great justice the entire episode of “Queen-like
Teresa—radient Inez!”—She was so much excited by the composition of
“Mozart's Requiem,” that her physician forbade her to write for weeks
afterwards.—She regarded Professor Norton, who undertook the
publication of her works (or rather its superintendence) in this
country, as one of her firmest friends. A packet with a letter from
this gentleman to the poetess containing offers of service, and a
self-introduction was lost upon the Ulverstone sands. They were
afterwards discovered drying at an inn fire, and forwarded to their
address. With Dr. Channing she frequently corresponded. An offer of a
certain and liberal income was made her in the hope of tempting her to
take up her residence in Boston and conduct a periodical.—Mr. Chorley
draws a fine distinction between Mrs. Hemans and Miss Jewsbury. “The
former,” he says, “came through Thought to Poetry, the latter through
Poetry to Thought.” He cites a passage in the “Three Histories” of
Miss Jewsbury, as descriptive of the personal appearance of Mrs. H. at
the period of his first acquaintance with her. It is the portrait of
Egeria, and will be remembered by most of our readers. It ends thus:
“She was a muse, a grace, a variable child, a dependent woman—the
Italy of human beings.”—Retzsch and Flaxman were Mrs. H.'s favorites
among modern artists. She was especially pleased with the group in the
Outlines to Hamlet—of Laertes and Hamlet struggling over the corpse of
Ophelia.—In 1828 she finally established herself at Wavertree. “Her
house here,” says our author, “was too small to deserve the name; the
third of a cluster or row close to a dusty road, and yet too townish
in its appearance and situation to be called a cottage. It was set in
a small court, and within doors was gloomy and comfortless, for its
two parlors (one with a tiny book-room opening from it) were hardly
larger than closets; but with her harp and her books, and the flowers
with which she loved to fill her little rooms, they presently assumed
a habitable, almost an elegant appearance.”—Some odd examples are
given of the ridiculous and hyperbolical compliments paid the poetess,
e.g. “I have heard her requested to read aloud that ‘the visitor might
carry away an impression of the sweetness of her tones.’” “I have been
present when another eccentric guest, upon her characterizing some
favorite poem as happily as was her wont, clapped her hands as at a
theatre, and exclaimed, ‘O Mrs. Hemans! do say that again, that I may
put it down and remember it.’”—Among Spanish authors Mrs. H. admired
Herrera, and Luis Ponce de Leon. The lyrics in Gil Polo's Diana were
favorites with her. Burger's _Leonore_ (concerning which and Sir
Walter Scott see an anecdote in our notice, this month, of _Schloss
Hainfeld_) she was never tired of hearing, “for the sake of its
wonderful rhythm and energy.” In the power of producing awe, however,
she gave the preference to the _Auncient Mariner_. She liked the
writings of Novalis and Tieck. Possibly she did not love Goethe so
well as Schiller. She delighted in Herder's translation of the Cid
Romances, and took pleasure in some of the poems of A. W. Schlegel.
Grillpazzer and Oehlenschluger were favorites among the minor German
tragedians. Shelley's “Ode to the West Wind” pleased her. In her copy
of _Corinne_ the following passage was underscored, and the words
“C'est moi!” written in the margin. “De toutes mes facultés la plus
puissante est la faculté de souffrir. Je suis née pour le bonheur. Mon
caractére est confiant, mon imagination est animée; mais la peine
excite en moi Je ne sais quelle impetuosité qui peut troubler ma
raison, ou me donner de la mort. Je vous le repéte encore,
menagez-moi; la gaité, la mobilité ne me servent qu'en apparence: mais
il y a dans mon ame des abymes de tristesse dont Je ne pouvais me
defendre qu'en me preservant de l'amour.”—In the summer of 1829 Mrs.
H. visited Scotland, and became acquainted with Sir Walter Scott. One
anecdote told by her of the novelist is highly piquant and
characteristic of both. “Well—we had reached a rustic seat in the
wood, and were to rest there—but I, out of pure perverseness, chose to
establish myself comfortably on a grass bank. ‘Would it not be more
prudent for you, Mrs. Hemans,’ said Sir Walter, ‘to take the seat?’ ‘I
have no doubt that it would, Sir Walter, but, somehow or other, I
always prefer the grass.’ ‘And so do I,’ replied the dear old
gentleman, coming to sit there beside me, ‘and I really believe that I
do it chiefly out of a wicked wilfulness, because all my _good
advisers_ say it will give me the rheumatism.’”—Speaking of Martin's
picture of _Nineveh_ Mrs. H. says: “It seems to me that something more
of gloomy grandeur might have been thrown about the funeral pyre; that
it should have looked more like a thing apart, almost suggesting of
itself the idea of an awful sacrifice.” She agrees with Wordsworth,
that Burns' “Scots wha hae wi Wallace bled” is “wretched stuff.” She
justly despised all allegorical personifications. Among the books
which she chiefly admired in her later days, are the Discourses of
Bishop Hall, Bishop Leighton, and Jeremy Taylor; the “Natural History
of Enthusiasm;” Mrs. Austin's Translations and Criticisms; Mrs.
Jameson's “Characteristics of Women;” Bulwer's “Last Days of Pompeii;”
Miss Edgeworth's “Helen,” and Miss Mitford's Sketches. The Scriptures
were her daily study.—Wordsworth was then her favorite poet. Of Miss
Kemble's “Francis” she thus speaks. “Have you not been disappointed in
Miss Kemble's Tragedy? To me there seems a _coarseness_ of idea and
expression in many parts, which from a woman is absolutely startling.
I can scarcely think it has sustaining power to bear itself up at its
present height of popularity.”

We take from Volume I, the following passage in regard to Schiller's
“Don Carlos,” a comparison of which drama with the “Filippo” of
Alfieri, will be found in this number of the Messenger. The words we
copy are those of Mrs. Hemans.


The interview between Philip the Second and Posa, is certainly very
powerful, but to me its interest is always destroyed by a sense of
utter _impossibility_ which haunts me throughout. Not even Schiller's
mighty spells can, I think, win the most “unquestioning spirit” to
suppose that such a voice of truth and freedom _could_ have been
lifted up, and endured, in the presence of the cold, stern, Philip the
Second—that he would, even for a {725} moment, have listened to the
language thus fearlessly bursting from a noble heart. Three of the
most impressive scenes towards the close of the play, might, I think,
be linked together, leaving out the intervening ones, with much
effect—the one in which Carlos, standing by the body of his friend,
forces his father to the contemplation of the dead; the one in which
the king comes forward, with his fearful dreamy remorse, alone amidst
his court,

  Gieb diesen Todten mir heraus, &c.

and the subsequent interview between Philip and the Grand Inquisitor,
in which the whole spirit of those fanatic days seems embodied.


In perusing these volumes the reader will not fail to be struck with
the evidence they contain of a more than ordinary _joyousness_ of
temperament in Mrs. Hemans. He will be astonished also in finding
himself able to say that he has at length seen a book, dealing much in
strictly personal memoirs, wherein no shadow of vanity or affectation
could be discerned in either the Memorialist or his subject. In
concluding this notice we must not forget to impress upon our friends
that we have been speaking altogether of the work issued by Saunders
and Otley, publishers of the highest respectability, who have come
among us as strangers, and who, as such, have an undeniable claim upon
our courtesy. Their edition is embellished with two fine engravings,
one of the poetess's favorite residence in Wales, the other of the
poetess herself. We shall beg our friends also to remember that this
edition, and this exclusively, is printed for the benefit of the
children of Mrs. Hemans. To Southerners, at least, we feel that
nothing farther need be said.


DR. HAXALL'S DISSERTATION.

_A Dissertation on the Importance of Physical Signs in the Various
Diseases of the Abdomen and Thorax. By Robert W. Haxall, M.D. of
Richmond, Va. Boston: Perkins and Marvin._

The Boylston Medical Committee of Harvard University, having
propounded the question, “How far are the external means of exploring
the condition of the internal organs useful and important?” a gold
medal was, in consequence, awarded to this Dissertation on the
subject, by our townsman Dr. Haxall. Notwithstanding the modesty of
his motto, “_Je n'enseigne pas, Je raconte_,” he has here given
evidence, not to be misunderstood, of a far wider range of study, of
experience, of theoretical and practical knowledge, than that
attained, except in rare cases, by our medical men. He has evinced too
more than ordinary powers of analysis, and his Essay will command (oh,
rare occurrence in the generality of similar Essays!) the entire
respect of every well-educated man, as a literary composition in its
own peculiar character nearly faultless.

The Dissertation does not respond, in the fullest extent, to the
category proposed. The only available method of discussing the
question, “How far are the _external_ means of exploring the condition
of the internal organs useful and important?” is to show, as far as
possible, the deficiencies of _other_ means—to point out the
inconvenience and want of certainty attending a diagnosis deduced from
symptoms merely general or functional, and to demonstrate the
advantages, if any, of those signs (afforded by external examination)
which, in medical language, are alone denominated _physical_. But to
do all this would require a much larger treatise than the Committee
had in contemplation, and so far, it appears to us, they have been
over-hasty in proposing a query so illimitable. Our author (probably
thinking thus) has wisely confined himself to diseases occurring in
the common routine of practice, and here again only to such as affect
the cavities of the Abdomen and Thorax. The brain is not treated
of—for, except in a few strictly surgical instances, the unyielding
parietes of the skull will admit of no diagnosis deduced from their
examination.

In the discussion of the subject thus narrowed, Dr. Haxall has
commented upon the physical signs which (assisted as they always are
by functional symptoms) lead to the detection of the diseases of the
_liver_, the _spleen_, the _uterus_, the _ovary_, the _kidney_, the
_bladder_, the _stomach_, and the _intestines_—of _Typhoid or Typhus
Fever_—of _Inflammation of the Peritonæum_—of _Pleura_,
_Pleuro-pneumonia_, _Hydrothorax_, _Pneumothorax_, _Catarrh_,
_Emphysema_, _Asthma_, _Dilatation of the Bronchiæ_, _Pneumonia_,
_Pulmonary Apoplexy_, and _Phthisis_—of _Pericarditis_, _Hypertrophy
of the Heart_, _Dilatation_ of that organ, and lastly, of _Aneurism of
the Aorta_.

The most important and altogether the most original portion of the
Essay, is that relating to the fever called _Typhoid_. The pathology
of fever in general has been at all times a fruitful subject of
discussion. Solidists, humorists, and advocates of the idiopathic
doctrine, have each their disciples among the medical profession. Dr.
H. advocates no theory in especial, but in regard to typhus fever
agrees with M. Louis in supposing the true lesion of the disease to
reside in an organic alteration of the glands of Peyer. He denies
consequently that bilious fever, pneumonia, dysentery, or indeed any
other malady, assumes, at any stage, what can be properly called a
“typhoid” character, unless the word “typhoid” be regarded as
expressive of mere _debility_. The chief diagnostic signs he maintains
to be physical, but enters into a minute account of _all_ the symptoms
of the disorder. The Essay is embraced in a pamphlet, beautifully
printed, of 108 pages.


SCHLOSS HAINFELD.

_Skimmings; or a Winter at Schloss Hainfeld in Lower Styria. By
Captain Basil Hall, Royal Navy, F. R. S. Philadelphia: Republished by
Carey, Lea and Blanchard._

“Skimmings,” we apprehend, is hardly better, as a title than
“Pencillings” or “Inklings”—yet Captain Hall has prefixed this little
piece of affectation to some pages of interest. His book, we are
informed in the Preface, is intended as a pioneer to a work of larger
dimensions, and consisting of passages from journals written during
three different excursions to the Continent. The specimen now given us
is principally valuable as treating of a region but little known, or
at least very partially described.

Towards the close of April 1834, the Captain, accompanied by his wife
and family, being on his way from Rome to Naples, received an
invitation from a certain Countess Purgstall to visit her castle or
Schloss of Hainfeld near Gratz in Lower Styria. The Countess, whose
name and existence were equally unknown to our travellers, was found
to be an elderly Scotch lady, who forty years before having married an
Austrian nobleman, went with him to Germany, and never {726} returned
to Scotland. She claimed moreover to be an early friend of Sir James
Hall, the captain's father. Induced by the knowledge of this fact, by
the earnest manner in which the old lady urged her invitation, and
more especially by a desire of seeing Lower Styria, our author paid
her a visit in October, taking the homeward route through that country
instead of following the usual track of English travellers through the
Tyrol.

The Countess Purgstall is a character in whom the reader finds himself
insensibly interested. Her maiden name was Jane Anne Cranstoun. She
was the sister of Lord Corehouse, and of Mrs. Dugald Stuart—moreover
our travellers find her a most agreeable companion and hostess, and
discover beyond a doubt that from herself Sir Walter Scott depicted
Die Vernon, the most original and spirited of his female paintings. It
is, consequently, almost needless to say that in early youth the
Countess was a votary of the gay world; and the circumstances under
which she was so solicitous for a visit from the son of her old
friend, were the more touching on this account. Her only son, a boy of
premature talent, having died, she had given herself up to grief; and
for three years she had been confined to bed. Captain Hall and his
family remained with her, at her urgent desire, until her decease,
which took place upon the 23d of March, within a day of the period
long before designated by herself for that event.

Besides the variety of singular anecdotes respecting the Countess and
her household, the volume is enriched with many curious stories,
scandalous, legendary, or superstitious. In a chapter entitled “The
Neighbors,” we have the Austrian nobility at their country residences
strikingly contrasted with the English _noblesse_. Here is an account
of a dinner given the Captain at the castle of an Hungarian nobleman,
near the village of St. Gothard.


In the midst of these national discussions the dinner appeared; and as
our morning's expedition had made us more than usually hungry, we
looked forward with less dread than we had ever done before to the
overloaded table, which all reports of the nature and extent of a
German dinner led us to expect. But our fears on this score, if we had
any, were groundless, for a less loaded repast never was seen. There
was positively too little for the company, and we felt awkward at
having, by our intrusion, diminished the scanty allowance of the
family. Every dish was carried off the table as clean as if, instead
of a goodly company of Hungarian ladies and gentlemen, with a couple
of hungry heretics from England, the Baron had introduced a dozen of
his wild boar hounds to lick the platters.

As this was the only Hungarian dinner we saw during our stay in these
parts, a notice of it may perhaps interest the lovers of good cheer.
We had first of all coldish, dirty-looking, thin soup; then a plate
with ill-cut slices of ill-salted tongue; and, after a long and dreary
interval, a dish consisting of slices of boiled beef, very cold, very
fat, and very tough. I know not whence the fat came; for in that
country there are no cattle bred for the table, but only for the
plough and the wagon, and after many years of labor they are killed,
not because they are fit to be eaten, (quite the contrary) but because
they can work no longer. The next dish promised better; it was a
salmon twisted into a circle, with his tail in his mouth, like the
allegorical images of eternity. But I am sure if I were to live, as
the Americans say, from July to Eternity, I should not wish to look
upon the like of such a fish again. It had been brought all the way
from Carinthia by the bold Baron himself. I need not say more. And yet
its bones were so nicely cleaned, that the skeleton might have been
placed in a museum of natural history, and named by Agassiz or
Deshayes without further trouble. Next arrived a dish of sausages
which disappeared in what the Germans call an Augenblick or twinkling
of an eye. Lastly, came the roast, as it always does in those
countries, but instead of a jolly English surloin or haunch, the dish
consisted of a small shred of what they facetiously called venison—but
such venison! Yet had the original stag been alive from which this
morsel was hewn, it could not have moved off faster. To wind up all,
instead of dessert, we were presented with a soup-plate holding eleven
small dry sweet cakes, each as big as a Geneose watch glass. In short,
not to spin out this sad repast, it reminded me of long by-gone days
spent in the midshipmen's birth on short allowance, where the daily
beef and bread of his gracious Majesty used to vanish in like manner,
and leave, as Shakspeare says, “not a wreck behind.” I ought not to
omit that the wine was scarcely drinkable, excepting, I presume, one
bottle of Burgundy, which the generous master of the house kept
faithfully to himself, not offering even the lady by his side, a
stranger and his own invited guest, a single glass, but drinking the
whole, to the last drop, himself! So much for a Hungarian magnate!


At Chapter X, we were somewhat astonished at meeting with an old
friend, in the shape of the verses beginning “_My Life is like the
Summer Rose_.” These lines are thus introduced. “One day, when I
entered the Countess' room, I observed that she had been writing; but
on my sitting down by her bedside, she sent away the apparatus,
retaining only one sheet of paper, which she held up, and said—‘You
have written your life; here is mine,’ and she put into my hands the
following copy of verses, by whom written she would not tell me.
Probably they are by herself, for they are certainly exactly such as
suited her cast of thought.” Here it certainly appears that the
Countess desired the Captain to think them her composition. Surely
these stanzas have had a singular notoriety, and many claimants!

It appears very clearly from the relation of Captain Hall and from a
letter of Lockhart's, published in the volume before us, that the
Countess Purgstall (Miss Cranstoun) had no little influence in the
formation of the literary character of Sir Walter Scott. In his youth
the great novelist, then comparatively unknown, was received on
friendly terms by the family of Dugald Stuart, of which Miss
Cranstoun, the elder sister of Mrs. Stuart, was a member. This
intimacy, we are told, led Sir Walter frequently to consult Miss C. in
regard to his literary productions, and we should infer that the
sagacity of the young lady readily appreciated the great merit of her
protegé. On this head an anecdote of deep interest is related.
Burger's poem “Leonore” was received in Scotland about 1793, and a
translation of it read by Mrs. Barbauld, at the house of Dugald
Stuart. Miss Cranstoun's description of the poem and its effect, took
possession of the mind of Sir Walter, and, having with great effort
studied the lines in the original, he at length completed himself a
poetical translation, and Miss Cranstoun, very much to her
astonishment, was aroused one morning at half past six o'clock, to
listen to its recital by the translator in person. Of course she gave
it all attention, and begged permission to retain the MS. for a few
days to look it over at leisure. To this the poet consented—adding
that she had as well keep it until his return from the country,
whither he was about to proceed on a visit. Of this {727} intended
visit, it seems the critic was aware. As soon as Sir Walter had gone,
she sent for their common friend Mr. Erskine, afterwards Lord
Kinneder, and confided to him a scheme for having the MS. printed. An
arrangement was made with Mr. Robert Miller the bookseller, by which a
small edition of “Leonore” was to be hastily thrown off, one copy to
be done on the finest paper and superbly bound. Mr. Miller had the
book soon ready, and despatched it to the address of “Mr. Scott,” so
as to arrive when the company were assembled round the tea-table after
dinner. Much curiosity was expressed by all—not forgetting Miss C.—to
ascertain the contents of so beautiful a little volume. The envelope
was at length torn off by the astonished author, who, for the first
time, thus saw himself in print, and who, “all unconscious of the
glories which awaited him, had possibly never dreamed of appearing in
such a dress.” He was now called upon to read the poem—and the effect
upon the company is said to have been electrical. These reminiscences
of Sir Walter form, possibly, the most interesting portions of Schloss
Hainfeld. The entire volume, however, has many charms of matter, and
more especially of manner. Captain Hall is no ordinary writer. This
justice must be done him.


PETER SNOOK.

_Peter Snook, a Tale of the City; Follow your Nose; and other Strange
Tales. By the Author of ‘Chartley,’ the ‘Invisible Gentleman,’ &c. &c.
Philadelphia: Republished by Carey, Lea and Blanchard._

The ‘Invisible Gentleman’ was exceedingly popular—and is. It belongs
to a class of works which every one takes a pleasure in reading, and
yet which every one thinks it his duty to condemn. Its author is one
of the best of the English Magazinists—possessing a large share of
Imagination, and a wonderful fertility of Fancy or Invention. With the
exception of Boz, of the London Morning Chronicle, and, perhaps a
couple of the writers in Blackwood, he has no rivals in his particular
line. We confess ourselves somewhat in doubt, however, whether Boz and
the author of ‘Chartley’ are not one and the same—or have not some
intimate connection. In the volume now before us, the two admirable
Tales, ‘Peter Snook’ and ‘The Lodging-House Bewitched,’ might very
well have been written by the author of ‘Watkins Tottle,’ of which
they possess all the whimsical peculiarities, and nearly all the
singular fidelity and vigor. The remaining papers, however, ‘Follow
your Nose,’ and the ‘Old Maiden's Talisman,’ are more particularly
characteristic of the author of the ‘Invisible Gentleman.’

The first of the series is also the best, and presents so many
striking points for the consideration of the Magazine writer—(by which
we mean merely to designate the writer of the brief and piquant
article, slightly exaggerated in all its proportions) that we feel
inclined to speak of it more fully than is our usual custom in regard
to reprints of English light literature.

Peter Snook, the hero, and the beau ideal of a Cockney, is a retail
linen-draper in Bishopgate Street. He is of course a stupid and
conceited, though at bottom a very good little fellow, and “always
looks as if he was frightened.” Matters go on very thrivingly with
him, until he becomes acquainted with Miss Clarinda Bodkin, “a young
lady owning to almost thirty, and withal a great proficient in the
mysteries of millinery and mantua-making.” Love and ambition, however,
set the little gentleman somewhat beside himself. “If Miss Clarinda
would but have me,” says he, “we might divide the shop, and have a
linen-drapery side, and a haberdashery and millinery side, and one
would help the other. There'd be only one rent to pay, and a double
business—and it would be so comfortable too!” Thinking thus, Peter
commences a desperate flirtation, to which Miss Clarinda but
doubtfully responds. He escorts the lady to White Conduit House,
Bagnigge Wells, and other “genteel” places of public resort—and
finally is so rash as to accede to the proposition on her part of a
trip to Margate. At this epoch of the narrative the writer takes
occasion to observe that the subsequent proceedings of the hero are
gathered from accounts rendered by himself, when called upon
afterwards for certain explanations.

It is agreed that Miss Clarinda shall set out alone for Margate, and
Mr. Snook follows after some indispensable arrangements. These occupy
him until the middle of July, at which period, taking passage in the
“Rose in June,” he safely reaches his destination. But various
misfortunes here await him—misfortunes admirably adapted to the
meridian of Cockney feeling, and the capacity of Cockney endurance.
His umbrella, for example, and a large brown paper parcel containing a
new pea-green coat, and flower-patterned embroidered silk waistcoat,
are tumbled into the water at the landing place, and Miss Bodkin
forbids him her presence in his old clothes. By a tumble of his own
too, the skin is rubbed off both his shins for several inches, and his
surgeon, having no regard to the lover's cotillon engagements with
Miss Clarinda, enjoins upon him a total abstinence from dancing. A
cock-chafer, moreover, is at the trouble of flying into one of his
eyes, and, worse than all, a tall military-looking shoemaker, Mr.
Last, has taken advantage of his delay in reaching Margate, to
ingratiate himself with his mistress. Finally, he is “cut” by Last and
rejected by the lady, and has nothing left for it but to secure a
homeward passage in the “Rose in June.” In the evening of the second
day after his departure, the vessel drops anchor off Greenwich. Most
of the passengers go ashore with the view of taking the stage to the
city. Peter, however, who considers that he has already spent money
enough to no purpose, prefers remaining on board. “We shall get to
Billingsgate,” says he “while I am sleeping, and I shall have plenty
of time to go home and dress and go into the city and borrow the
trifle I may want for Pester and Company's bill, that comes due the
day after to-morrow.” This determination is a source of much trouble
to our hero, as will be seen in the sequel. Some shopmen who remain
with him in the packet, tempt him to unusual indulgences in the way,
first of brown stout, and secondly of positive French brandy. The
consequence is, that Mr. Peter Snook falls, thirdly, asleep, and,
fourthly, overboard.

About dawn, on the morning after this event, Ephraim Hobson, the
confidential clerk and fac-totum of Mr. Peter Snook, is disturbed from
a sound nap by the sudden appearance of his master. That gentleman
{728} seems to be quite in a bustle, and delights Ephraim with an
account of a “whacking wholesale order for exportation” just received.
“Not a word to _any_ body about the matter,” exclaims Peter, with
unusual emphasis; “it's such an opportunity as don't come often in a
man's life time. There's a captain of a ship, he's the owner of her
too; but never mind, there an't time to enter into particulars now,
but you'll know all by and bye; all you have to do is to do as I tell
you, so come along.” Setting Ephraim to work, with directions to pack
up immediately all the goods in the shop, with the exception of a few
trifling articles, the master avows his intention of going into the
city “to borrow enough money to make up Pester's bill for to-morrow.”
“I don't think you'll want much, sir,” returned Hobson, with a
self-complacent air. “I've been looking up the long winded 'uns, you
see, since you've been gone, and have got Shy's money and Slack's
account, which we'd pretty well given up for a bad job, and one or two
more. There, there's the list, and there's the key to the strongbox,
where you'll find the money, besides what I've took at the counter.”
Peter seems well pleased at this, and shortly afterwards goes out,
saying he cannot tell when he will be back, and giving directions that
whatever goods may be sent in during his absence shall be left
untouched until his return.

It appears that after leaving his shop, Mr. Snook proceeded to that of
Messieurs Job, Flashbill & Co. (one of whose clerks, on board the Rose
in June, had been very liberal in supplying our hero with brandy on
the night of his ducking,) looked over a large quantity of ducks and
other goods, and finally made purchase of “a choice assortment” to be
delivered the same day. His next visit was to Mr. Bluff, the managing
partner in the banking house where he usually kept his cash. His
business now was to request permission to overdraw a hundred pounds
for a few days.


“Humph,” said Mr. Bluff, “money is very scarce but——Bless me!—yes—it's
he! Excuse me a minute, Mr. Snook, there's a gentleman at the front
counter whom I want particularly to speak to—I'll be back with you
directly.” As he uttered these words, he rushed out, and, in passing
one of the clerks on his way forward, he whispered—“Tell Scribe to
look at Snook's account, and let me know directly.” He then went to
the front counter, where several people were waiting to pay and
receive money. “Fine weather this, Mr. Butt. What! you're not out of
town like the rest of them?”

“No,” replied Mr. Butt, who kept a thriving gin-shop, “no, I sticks to
my business—make hay while the sun shines—that's my maxim. Wife up at
night—I up early in the morning.”

The banker chatted and listened with great apparent interest, till the
closing of a huge book on which he kept his eye, told him that his
whispered order had been attended to. He then took a gracious leave of
Mr. Butt, and returned back to the counting-house with a slip of
paper, adroitly put in his hand while passing, on which was written,
“Peter Snook, Linen Draper, Bishopgate Street—old account—increasing
gradually—balance 153_l_. 15_s_. 6_d_.—_very_ regular.” “Sorry to keep
you waiting, Mr. Snook,” said he, “but we must catch people when we
can. Well, what is it you were saying you wanted us to do?”

“I should like to be able to overdraw just for a few days,” replied
Peter.

“How much?”

“A hundred.”

“Won't fifty do?”

“No, not quite sir.”

“Well, you're an honest fellow, and don't come bothering us often, so
I suppose we must not be too particular with you for this once.”


Leaving Bluff, Mr. Snook hurries to overtake Mr. Butt, the dealer in
spirits, who had just left the banking house before himself, and to
give that gentleman an order for a hogshead of the best gin. As he is
personally unknown to Mr. Butt he hands him a card on which is written
“Peter Snook, linen and muslin warehouse, No. —, Bishopgate street
within, &c &c.” and takes occasion to mention that he purchases at the
recommendation of Mr. Bluff. The gin is to be at Queenhithe the same
evening. The spirit-dealer, as soon as his new customer has taken
leave, revolves in his mind the oddity of a linen-draper's buying a
hogshead of gin, and determines to satisfy himself of Mr. Snook's
responsibility by a personal application to Mr. Bluff. Upon reaching
the bank, however, he is told by the clerks that Mr. Bluff, being in
attendance upon a committee of the House of Commons, will not be home
in any reasonable time—but also that Peter Snook is a perfectly safe
man. The gin is accordingly sent; and several other large orders for
different goods, upon other houses, are all promptly fulfilled in the
same manner. Meantime Ephraim is busily engaged at home in receiving
and inspecting the invoices of the various purchases as they arrive,
at which employment he is occupied until dusk, when his master makes
his appearance in unusually high spirits. We must here be pardoned for
copying about a page.


“Well, Ephraim,” he exclaimed, “this looks something like business!
You hav'nt had such a job this many a day! Shop looks well now, eh?”

“You know best, sir,” replied Hobson. “But hang me if I a'nt
frightened. When we shall sell all these goods I'm sure I can't think.
You talked of having a haberdashery side to the shop; but if we go on
at this rate, we shall want another side for ourselves; I'm sure I
don't know where Miss Bodkin is to be put.”

“She go to Jericho!” said Peter, contemptuously. “As for the goods, my
boy, they'll all be gone before to-morrow morning. All you and I have
got to do is to pack 'em up; so let us turn to and strap at it.”

Packing was Ephraim's favorite employment, but on the present occasion
he set to work with a heavy heart. His master, on the contrary,
appeared full of life and spirits, and corded boxes, sewed up trusses,
and packed huge paper parcels with a celerity and an adroitness truly
wonderful.

“Why, you don't get on, Hobson,” he exclaimed; “see what I've done!
Where's the ink-pot?—oh, here it is!” and he proceeded to mark his
packages with his initials and the letter G below. “There,” he
resumed, “P. S. G.; that's for me at Gravesend. I'm to meet the
Captain and owner there; show the goods—if there's any he don't like
shall bring 'em back with me; get bills—bankers' acceptances for the
rest; see 'em safe on board _then_—but _not before_, mind that Master
Ephraim! No, no, keep my weather eye open as the men say on board the
Rose in June. By the bye, I hav'nt told you yet about my falling
overboard whap into the river.”

“Falling overboard!” exclaimed the astonished shopman, quitting his
occupation to stand erect and listen.

“Ay, ay,” continued Peter—“see it won't do to tell you long stories
_now_. There—mark that truss, will you? Know all about it some day.
Lucky job though—tell you that; got this thundering order by it. Had
one tumble, first going off, at Margate. Spoilt my peagreen—never
mind—that was a lucky tumble too. Hadn't been for that, shouldn't so
soon have found out the game a certain person was playing with me. She
go to Jericho?”

But for the frequent repetition of this favorite expression, Ephraim
Hobson has since declared he should have doubted his master's identity
during the whole of that evening, as there was something very singular
about him; and his strength and activity in moving the bales, boxes,
and trusses, were such as he had never previously exhibited. The
phrase condemning this, that, or the other thing or person to “go to
Jericho,” was the only expression that he uttered, as the shopman
said, {729} “naturally,” and Peter repeated that whimsical anathema as
often as usual.


The goods being all packed up, carts arrive to carry them away; and,
by half past ten o'clock, the shop is entirely cleared, with the
exception of a few trifling articles, to make show on the shelves and
counters. Two hackney coaches are called. Mr. Peter Snook gets into
one with a variety of loose articles which would require too much time
to pack, and his shopman into another with some more. Arriving at
Queenhithe, they find all the goods previously sent already embarked
in the hold of a long decked barge which lies near the shore. Mr.
Snook now insists upon Ephraim's going on board and taking supper and
some hot rum and water. This advice he follows to so good purpose that
he is at length completely bewildered, when his master, taking him up
in his arms, carries him on shore, and there setting him down, leaves
him to make the best of his way home as he can.

About eight next morning, Ephraim awaking, of course in a sad
condition both of body and mind, sets himself immediately about
arranging the appearance of the shop “so as to secure the credit of
the concern.” In spite of all his ingenuity, however, it maintains a
poverty-stricken appearance—which circumstance excites some most
unreasonable suspicions in the mind of Mr. Bluff's clerk, upon his
calling at ten with Pester and Co.'s bill, (three hundred and sixteen
pounds seventeen shillings) and receiving, by way of payment, a check
upon his own banking house for the amount—Mr. Snook having written
this check before his departure with the goods, and left it with
Ephraim. Upon reaching the bank therefore, the clerk inquires if Peter
Snook's check is good for three hundred and sixteen pounds odd, and is
told that it is not worth a farthing, Mr. S. having overdrawn already
for a hundred. While Mr. Bluff and his assistants are conversing upon
this subject, Butt, the gin-dealer, calls to thank the banker for
having recommended him a customer—which the banker denies having done.
An explanation ensues and “stop thief!” is the cry. Ephraim is sent
for, and reluctantly made to tell all he knows of his master's
proceedings on the day before—by which means a knowledge is obtained
of the other houses who (it is supposed) have been swindled. Getting a
description of the barge which conveyed the goods from Queenhithe, the
whole party of creditors now set off in pursuit.

About dawn the next morning they overtake the barge a little below
Gravesend—when four men are observed leaving her upon sight of the
pursuers and rowing to the shore in a skiff. Peter Snook is found
sitting quietly in the cabin, and although apparently a little
surprised at seeing Mr. Pester, betrays nothing like embarrassment or
fear.


“Ah, Mr. Pester, is it you? Glad to see you, sir! So you've been
taking a trip out o' town, and are going back with us? We shall get to
Billingsgate between eight and nine, they say; and I hope it won't be
later, as I've a bill of yours comes due to-day, and I want to be at
home in time to write a check for it.”


The goods are also found on board, together with three men in the
hold, gagged and tied hand and foot. They give a strange account of
themselves. Being in the employ of Mr. Heaviside a lighterman, they
were put in charge of “The Flitter,” when she was hired by Peter Snook
for a trip to Gravesend. According to their orders they took the barge
in the first instance to a wharf near Queenhithe, and helped to load
her with some goods brought down in carts. Mr. Snook afterwards came
on board bringing with him two fierce looking men and “a little man
with a hooked nose,” (Ephraim.) Mr. S. and the little man then “had a
sort of a jollification” in the cabin, till the latter got drunk and
was carried ashore. They then proceeded down the river, nothing
particular occuring till they had passed Greenwich Hospital, when Mr.
S. ordered them to lay the barge alongside a large black sided ship.
No sooner was the order obeyed than they were boarded by a number of
men from said ship, who seized them, bound them hand and foot, gagged
them and put them down into the hold.

The immediate consequence of this information is, that our poor friend
Peter is bound hand and foot, gagged, and put down into the hold in
the same manner, by way of retaliation, and for sake-keeping on his
way back to the city. On the arrival of the party a meeting of the
creditors is called. Peter appears before them in a great rage and
with the air of an injured man. Indeed, his behavior is so
mal-a-propos to his situation, as entirely to puzzle his
interrogators. He accuses the whole party of a conspiracy.


“Peter Snook,” said Mr. Pester solemnly, from the chair, “that look
does not become you after what has passed. Let me advise you to
conduct yourself with propriety. You will find that the best policy,
depend on't.”

“A pretty thing for you, for to come to talk of propriety!” exclaimed
Peter; “you that seed me laid hold on by a set of ruffins, and never
said a word, nor given information a'terwards! And here have I been
kept away from business I don't know how long, and shut up like a dog
in a kennel; but I look upon't you were at the bottom of it all—you
and that fellow with the plum-pudding face, as blowed me up about a
cask of gin! What you both mean by it I can't think; but if there's
any law in the land, I'll make you remember it, both of you—that's
what I will!”


Mr. Snook swears that he never saw Mr. Jobb in his life except on the
occasion of his capture in “The Flitter,” and positively denies having
looked out any parcel of goods at the house of Jobb, Flashbill & Co.
With the banker, Mr. Bluff, he acknowledges an acquaintance—but not
having drawn for the two hundred and seventy pounds odd, or having
ever overdrawn for a shilling in his life. Moreover he is clearly of
opinion that the banker has still in his hands more than a hundred and
fifty pounds of his (Mr. Snook's) money. He also designates several
gentlemen as being no creditors of his, although they were of the
number of those from whom large purchases had been made for the
“whacking” shipping order, and although their goods were found in “The
Flitter.” Ephraim is summoned, and testifies to all the particulars of
his master's return, and the subsequent packing, cart-loading and
embarkation as already told—accounting for the extravagances of Mr.
Snook as being “all along of _that_ Miss Bodkin.”


“Lor', master, hi's glad to see you agin,” exclaimed Ephraim. “Who'd
ha' thought as 'twould come to this?”

“Come to what?” cried Peter. “I'll make 'em repent of it, every man
Jack of 'em, before I've done, if there's law to be had for love or
money!”

“Ah, sir,” said Ephraim, “we'd better have stuck to the retail. I was
afraid that shipping consarn would'nt answer, and tell'd you so, if
you recollect, but you would'nt harken to me.”

“What shipping concern?” inquired Peter, with a look of amazement.

{730} “La! master,” exclaimed Ephraim, “it aint of any use to pretend
to keep it a secret now, when every body knows it. I did'nt tell Mr.
Pester, though, till the last, when all the goods was gone out of the
shop, and the sheriff's officers had come to take possession of the
house.”

“Sheriff's officers in possession of my house!” roared Peter. “All the
goods gone out of the shop! What do you mean by that, you rascal? What
have you been doing in my absence?” And he sprang forward furiously,
and seized the trembling shopman by the collar with a degree of
violence which rendered it difficult for the two officers in
attendance to disengage him from his hold.


Hereupon, Mr. Snap, the attorney retained by the creditors, harangues
the company at some length, and intimates that Mr. Snook is either
mad, or acting the madman for the purpose of evading punishment. A
practitioner from Bedlam is sent for, and some artifices resorted
to—but to no purpose. It is found impossible to decide upon the
question of sanity. The medical gentleman in his report to the
creditors confesses himself utterly perplexed, and, without giving a
decision, details the particulars of a singular story told him by Mr.
Snook himself concerning the mode of his escape from drowning after he
fell overboard from the “Rose in June.” “It is a strange unlikely tale
to be sure,” says the physician, “and if his general conversation was
of that wild imaginative flighty kind which I have so often witnessed,
I should say it was purely ideal; but he appears such a plain-spoken,
simple sort of a person, that it is difficult to conceive how he could
invent such a fiction.” Mr. Snook's narration is then told, not in his
very words, but in the author's own way, with all the particulars
obtained from Peter's various recitations. This narration is singular
enough but we shall give it only _in petto_.

Upon tumbling overboard, Mr. Snook (at least according to his own
story) swam courageously as long as he could. He was upon the point of
sinking, however, when an oar was thrust under his arm, and he found
himself lifted in a boat by a “dozen dark looking men.” He is taken on
board a large ship, and the captain, who is a droll genius, and talks
in rhyme somewhat after the fashion of Frazer's Magazine, entertains
him with great cordiality, dresses him in a suit of his own clothes,
makes him drink in the first place a brimmer of “something hot,” and
afterwards plies him with wines and liqueurs of all kinds, at a supper
of the most magnificent description. Warmed in body and mind by this
excellent cheer, Peter reveals his inmost secrets to his host and
talks freely and minutely of a thousand things; of his man Ephraim and
his oddities; of his bank account; of his great credit; of his
adventures with Miss Bodkin, his prospects in trade, and especially
the names, residences, et cetera, et cetera, of the wholesale houses
with which he is in the habit of dealing. Presently, being somewhat
overcome with wine, he goes to bed at the suggestion of the captain,
who promises to call him in season for a boat in the morning which
will convey him to Billingsgate in full time for Pester and Co.'s
note. How long he slept is uncertain—but when he awoke a great change
was observable in the captain's manner, who was somewhat brusque, and
handed him over the ship's side into the barge where he was discovered
by the creditors in pursuit, and which he was assured would convey him
to Billingsgate.

This relation we have given in brief, and consequently it implies
little or nothing. The result, however, to which the reader is
ingeniously led by the author, is that the real Peter Snook has been
duped, and that the Peter Snook who made the various purchases about
town, and who appeared to Ephraim only during the morning and evening
twilight of the eventful day, was, in fact, no other person than the
captain of “the strange, black-sided ship.” We are to believe that,
taking advantage of Peter's communicativeness, and a certain degree of
personal resemblance to himself, be assumed our hero's clothes while
he slept, and made a bold and nearly successful attempt at wholesale
peculation.

The incidents of this story are forcibly conceived, and even in the
hands of an ordinary writer would scarcely fail of effect. But in the
present instance so unusual a tact is developed in the narration, that
we are inclined to rank “Peter Snook” among the few tales which, each
in their own way, are absolutely faultless. Such things, however,
insignificant in themselves or their subjects, satisfy the mind of the
literary critic precisely as we have known a few rude, and apparently
unmeaning touches of the brush, fill with unalloyed pleasure the eye
of the artist. But no—in the latter case effect is produced chiefly by
arrangement, and a proper preponderance of objects. “Peter Snook” is
rather a Flemish _home-piece_, and entitled to the very species of
praise which should be awarded to the best of such pieces. The merit
lies in the _chiaro 'scuro_—in that blending of light and shadow where
nothing is _too distinct_, yet where the idea is fully conveyed—in the
absence of all rigid outlines and all miniature painting—in the not
undue warmth of the coloring—and in the slight tone of exaggeration
prevalent, yet not amounting to caricature. We will venture to assert
that no painter, who deserves to be called so, will read “Peter Snook”
without assenting to what we say, and without a perfect consciousness
that the principal rules of the plastic arts, founded as they surely
are in a true perception of the beautiful, will apply in their fullest
force to every species of literary composition.


LIFE OF RICHELIEU.

_Lives of the Cardinal de Richelieu, Count Oxenstiern, Count Olivarez,
and Cardinal Mazarin. By G. P. R. James. Republished by Carey, Lea and
Blanchard._

As a novelist, Mr. James has never, certainly, been popular—nor has
he, we think, deserved popularity. Neither do we mean to imply that
with “the few” he has been held in very lofty estimation. He has
fallen, apparently, upon that unlucky mediocrity permitted neither by
Gods nor columns. His historical novels have been of a questionable
character—neither veritable history, nor endurable romance—neither
“fish, flesh, nor gude red herring.” He has been lauded, it is true,
by a great variety of journals, and in many instances mentioned with
approbation by men whose critical opinions (could we fully ascertain
them) would be entitled to the highest consideration. It is not,
however, by the amount, so readily as by the nature or character of
such public compliments, that we can estimate their intrinsic value,
or that of the object complimented. No man speaks of James, as he
speaks, (and cannot help speaking) of Scott, of Bulwer, of D'Israeli,
and of numerous lesser minds than these—and all inferior to James, if
we harken to the body rather than to the soul {731} of the testimonies
offered hourly by the public press. The author of “Richelieu” and
“Darnley” is lauded, by a great majority of those who laud him, from
mere motives of duty, not of inclination—duty erroneously conceived.
He is looked upon as the head and representative of those novelists
who, in historical romance, attempt to blend interest with
instruction. His sentiments are found to be pure—his _morals_
unquestionable, and pointedly shown forth—his language indisputably
correct. And for all this, praise, assuredly, but then only a certain
degree of praise, should be awarded him. To be pure in his expressed
opinions is a duty; and were his language as correct as any spoken, he
would speak only as every gentleman should speak. In regard to his
historical information, were it much more accurate, and twice as
extensive as, from any visible indications, we have reason to believe
it, it should still be remembered that similar attainments are
possessed by many thousands of well-educated men of all countries, who
look upon their knowledge with no more than ordinary complacency; and
that a far, very far higher reach of erudition is within the grasp of
any general reader having access to the great libraries of Paris or
the Vatican. Something more than we have mentioned is necessary to
place our author upon a level with the best of the English
novelists—for here his admirers would desire us to place him. Had Sir
Walter Scott never existed, and Waverley never been written, we would
not, of course, award Mr. J. the merit of being the first to blend
history, even successfully, with fiction. But as an indifferent
imitator of the Scotch novelist in this respect, it is unnecessary to
speak of the author of “Richelieu” any farther. To genius of any kind,
it seems to us, that he has little pretension. In the solemn
tranquillity of his pages we seldom stumble across a novel emotion,
and if any matter of deep interest arises in the path, we are pretty
sure to find it an interest appertaining to some historical fact
equally vivid or more so in the original chronicles.

Of the volumes now before us we are enabled to speak more
favorably—yet not in a tone of high commendation. The book might more
properly be called “Notices of the Times of Richelieu,” &c. Of course,
in so small a compass, nothing like a minute account of the life and
varied intrigues of even Mazarin alone, could be expected. What is
done, however, is done with more than the author's usual ability, and
with much more than his customary spirit. In the Life of Axel, Count
Oxenstiern, there is, we believe, a great deal of information not to
be met with in the more accessible historians of Sweden.


HALL'S LATIN GRAMMAR.

_A new and compendious Latin Grammar; with appropriate exercises,
Analytical and Synthetical. For the use of primary schools, academies,
and colleges. By Baynard R. Hall, A.M. Principal of the Bedford
Classical and Mathematical Academy, and formerly Professor of the
Ancient Languages in the College of Indiana. Philadelphia: Harrison
Hall._

The excellences of this grammar have been so well proved, and the work
itself so heartily recommended by some of the first scholars in our
country that, at this late day especially, we feel called upon to say
but little in its behalf. But that little we can say conscientiously.

It appears to us at least _as well_ adapted to its purposes as any
Latin Grammar within our knowledge. In some respects it has merits to
be met with in no other. It is free from every species of empiricism,
and, following the good old track as far as that track can be
judiciously followed, admits of no royal road to the acquisition of
Latin. The arrangement is lucid and succinct—yet the work embodies a
vast deal of matter which could have been obtained only through
reference to many of the most elaborate treatises of Europe. In its
analysis of _idiom_ it excels any similar book now in common use—an
advantage of the highest importance. The size of the work is moderate,
yet nothing of consequence to the student is omitted. The definitions
are remarkably concise—yet sufficiently full for any practical
purpose. The prosodial rules at the beginning are easily comprehended,
and thus placed, are easily applied in the further progress of the
scholar. A great many useless things to be found in a majority of
grammars are judiciously discarded, and lastly, the analytical and
synthetical exercises are admirably suited to the illustration of the
principles inculcated. Upon the whole, were we a teacher, we would
prefer its use to that of any other Latin Grammar whatever.


BLAND'S CHANCERY REPORTS.

_Reports of Cases decided in the High Court of Chancery of Maryland.
By Theodorick Bland, Chancellor. Vol. 1, pp. 708, 8vo._

We cannot perceive any sufficient reason for the publication of this
book. The tribunal whose decisions it reports, is not of the last
resort;[1] they therefore are of very questionable authority, even in
Maryland; and the Chancellor, though evidently a man of sense and
learning, has not, like Kent, Marshall, or Hardwicke, that towering
reputation which will stamp his _dicta_ as law (either persuasively or
conclusively) beyond the limits of his own state. The cases reported
in chief, are all decided by the author of the book. In the notes are
given many decisions of his predecessors. So that, wherever we look,
there is still but the same inadequate weight of name and station.

[Footnote 1: Constitution of Maryland, Art. 56.]

Now, the enormous multiplication of books in every branch of knowledge
is one of the greatest evils of this age; since it presents one of the
most serious obstacles to the acquisition of correct information, by
throwing in the reader's way piles of lumber, in which he must
painfully grope for the scraps of useful matter, peradventure
interspersed. In no department have the complaints of this evil been
louder or more just, than in the law. There are five and twenty
supreme courts, or courts of appeals, in the United States, (not to
mention Arkansas or Michigan) each of which probably emits a yearly
volume of its “cases;” besides as many professed _legislative_
law-factories, all possessed with the notion of being Solons and
Lycurguses. These surely can give both lawyers and people _rules of
conduct_ enough to keep their wits on the stretch, without any
supplies from inauthoritative sources. The law books we get from
England would of themselves now suffice to employ those _lucubrations
of twenty years_, which used to be deemed few enough for a mastery of
the legal profession. From these considerations, we hold him to be no
friend to lawyers—and hardly a good citizen—who heedlessly {732} sends
forth a bulky addition to their reading, to encumber and perplex the
science, and make it more and more a riddle to common minds.

The volume before us, besides these more general objections, is liable
to at least another special one. Many of its cases are inordinately
voluminous. That of _Hannah K. Chase_ fills 30 pages—_Lingan_ v.
_Henderson_ 47 pages—_Cunningham_ v. _Browning_ 33 pages—_Owings'_
case 40 pages—and “the Chancellor's case” 92 pages! The third one of
these cases involves no principle that can _probably_ affect any
mortal out of Maryland, and the last is not even a _judicial_ decision
in Maryland! It is a mere determination of the legislature of that
state, touching the salary of a judge. They might all, we are full
sure, hare been shortened by two-thirds, with great advantage to their
perspicuity, as well as to the reader's time, patience and money.

There are no running dates on the margin, showing in what year each
case was decided. But in other respects, the _getting up_ of the book
is uncommonly good. The paper, typography, and binding, are all of the
first order. We are sorry however that these appliances were not
bestowed to better purpose.


LUCIEN BONAPARTE.

_Memoirs of Lucien Bonaparte, (Prince of Canino,) written by himself.
Translated from the original manuscript, under the immediate
superintendence of the author. Part the First, (from the year 1792, to
the year 8 of the Republic.)_

In the publication of these memoirs the Prince of Canino disclaims any
personal views. “I do it,” he says, “because they appear to offer
materials of some value to a history so fruitful in great events, of
which the serious study may be useful in future to my country.” In the
commencement of the brief introduction from which these words of his
are quoted, he complains, but without acrimony, of the pamphleteers
who have too often made him the subject of their leisure.
“Revelations, secret memoirs, collections of anecdotes, the fruits of
imaginations without shame or decency, have not spared me. I have read
all of them in my retirement, and I was at first surprised how I could
have drawn upon myself so many calumnies, never having offended any
person. But my astonishment ceased when I had better appreciated my
position—removed from public affairs, without influence, and almost
always in silent or open opposition to the powers, though sufficiently
near to keep them constantly in fear of my return to favor, how was it
possible for the malice of the courtiers to leave me in repose?”

It is not our intention to speak at length of these memoirs. Neither
is such a course necessary in regard to a work which will, and must be
read, by every person who pretends to read at all. The author
professes to suppress all details that are foreign to public
affairs—yet he has not too strictly adhered to his intention. There
are many merely personal and private anecdotes which have a very
shadowy bearing, if any, upon the political movements of the times.
That the whole volume is of deep interest it is almost unnecessary to
say—for this the subject is alone an assurance. The style of the
Prince de Canino, is sufficiently well known to a majority of our
readers. The book now before us possesses, in prose, many of those
peculiarities of manner, which in so great a measure distinguished,
and we must say disfigured, the author's poem of the _Cirreide_. Here
are the same affectations, the same _Tacitus-ism_, and the same
indiscriminate elevation of tone. The edition of this book by Saunders
and Otley is well printed, with a clear large type, and excellently
bound.


MADRID IN 1835.

_Madrid in 1835. Sketches of the Metropolis of Spain and its
Inhabitants, and of Society and Manners in the Peninsula. By a
Resident Officer. Two volumes in one. New York: Saunders & Otley._

One portion of this title appertains to volume the first, the other to
volume the second. Of Madrid, the author has managed to present a
vivid picture by means of a few almost scratchy outlines. He by no
means goes over the whole ground of the city, nor is he more definite
than necessary; but the most striking features of the life and
still-life of the Metropolis are selected with judgment, and given
with effect. The manner of the narrative is singularly _à la
Trollope_—and this we look upon as no little recommendation with that
large proportion of readers who, in laughing over a book, care not
overmuch whether the laugh be at the author or with him.

The sketches, here, of the manners and social habits of Madrid are
done with sufficient freedom, and a startling degree of _breadth_; yet
the details, for the most part, have an air of profound truth, and the
conviction will force itself upon the mind of the reader that the
“Resident Officer” who amuses him is thoroughly conversant with his
subject. Such passages as the following, however, are perhaps somewhat
overcolored:


No place offers such perfect social facility as the Spanish
_tertulia_. Any body presented by any other body at all known to the
master of the house, is sure to be politely received, and, unless in
some very peculiar case, offered the house—the usual compliment paid
to a stranger or new acquaintance. The great demoralization of society
in Spain, may be attributed, in no small degree, to this unbounded
admission of a nameless crowd, destitute even of the slightest
pretensions to birth, talent or character, into the best houses of the
capital and country, where they elbow, and are elbowed by, the most
distinguished individuals in the nation—on a footing of the most
perfect equality.... A decent coat and look, and the show of a few
ounces, are much better passports to society than the best character
and station. The master of the house is frequently ignorant of the
quality and circumstances of his guests. The usual answer to the query
“Do you know that man?” is “No, I know nothing at all about him; he
was introduced by so-and-so, who comes here often, but he appears a
_buen sujeto, muy fino y atento_.”


Notwithstanding the greater variety and racy picturesqueness of volume
one, volume two will be found upon the whole more entertaining. Here
the author deals freely, and _en connoisseur_, with the Ministry, the
Monasteries, the Clergy and their influence, with Prisons, Beggars,
Hospitals and Convents. This portion of the work includes also some
memorabilia of the year 1835—the Cholera and the Massacre of July. A
chapter on the Spanish Nobility is full of interest.

The work is a large octavo of 340 pages, handsomely printed and bound,
and embellished with two good engravings—one of the Convent of the
Salesas Viejas, the other of the Prado by twilight.
